administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf:   | 1 
 
 
   
 
OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project   
 
 
 
 
  
Tax Challenges Arising from the 
Digitalisation of the Economy – 
Administrative Guidance on the Global Anti -
Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two) ,  
July 2023  
Inclusive Framework on BEPS  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
      
 
 
2 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  This document and any map included herein are without prejudice to the status of or sovereignty over 
any territory, to the delimitation of international frontiers and boundaries and to the name of any territory, city or area.  
This document was approved by  the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on BEPS on 13 July 2023 and 
prepared for publication by the OECD Secretariat.  
 
Please cite as:  
OECD (202 3), Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation  of the Economy – Administrative Guidance 
on the Global Anti -Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two) , July 2023, OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework 
on BEPS, OECD, Paris , 
www.oecd.org/tax/beps/administrative- guidance- global -anti-base- erosion-
rules -pillar -two-july-2023.pdf . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© OECD 2023  
The use of this work, whether digital or print, is governed by the Terms and Conditions to be found at 
www.oecd.org/termsandconditions . 
 
   | 3 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Table of Contents  
Executive Summary  5 
1 General Currency Conversion Rules for the GloBE Rules  7 
Introduction  7 
Issues to be considered  7 
Guidance  13 
Examples  20 
2 Guidance on Tax C redits  25 
Introduction  25 
Guidance  30 
3 Substance-based Income Exclusion 40 
Interjurisdictional Assets and Employees  40 
Simplification  45 
Stock -based compensation  46 
Leas e 48 
Impairment Losses  52 
Reduction due to Article 7.2 54 
4 Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-up Tax  56 
Introduction  56 
Joint Ventures, JV Subsidiaries and MOCEs  56 
Blending of income and taxes  58 
Allocation of QDMTT tax liability among Constituent Entities  59 
Treatment of Stateless Constituent Entities  60 
Treatment of Flow -through UPEs  60 
Treatment of Flow -through Entities required to apply the IIR  61 
UPE that is a Flow -Through Entity and UPE subject to Deductible Dividend Regime  62 
Eligible Distribution Tax System  62 
ETR Computation for Investment Entities  63 
Investment Entity Tax Transparency Election  65 
Taxable Distribution Method Election  66 
Taxes allocable to Hybrid Entities or Distributing Constituent Entities  66 
Transition Years  67 
Exclusion fr om UTPR of MNE Groups in the initial phase of their international activity  71 
Currency for QDMTT computations  72 
Multi -Parented MNE Groups  73 4 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Filing obligations  73 
Definitions  74 
QDMTT payable  74 
5 Safe Harbours  77 
5.1 QDMTT Safe Harbour  77 
5.2 Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour  89 
References  91 
 
 
   | 5 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Executive Summary  
Background  
1. In October 2021 members of the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit 
Shifting (Inclusive Framework) agreed a two- pillar solution to reform the international tax framework in 
response to the challenges of digitalisation of the economy. As part of the October Statement, Inclusive 
Framework members agreed to a co- ordinated system of Global anti -Base Erosion (GloBE) rules that are 
designed to ensure large multinational enterprises pay a minimum level of tax on the income arising in 
each jurisdiction where they operate. In the October Statement, it was agreed that the Tax Challenges 
Arising from Digitalisation of the Economy – Global Anti -Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two): Inclusive 
Framework on BEPS  (the “GloBE Model Rules”) (OECD, 2021 [1]) (agreed by the Inclusive Framework and 
published in December 2021) and the Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of the Economy – 
Commentary to the Global Anti -Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two), First Edition: Inclus ive Framework 
on BEPS  (the “Commentary”) (OECD, 2022 [2]) (agreed by the Inclusive Framework and published in March 
2022) would have the status of a common approach. Under this common approach, jurisdictions are not 
required to adopt the GloBE rules, but, if they choose to do so, they will implement and administer the rules 
in a way that is consistent with the agreed outcomes. The common approach also means that Inclusive 
Framework members accept the application of the GloBE rules applied by other members, including 
agreement as to rule order and the application of any agreed safe harbours.  
2. The GloBE Rules were approved and released by the Inclusive Framework on 20 December 2021. 
The GloBE Rules consist of an interlocking and coor dinated system of rules which are designed to be 
implemented into the domestic law of each jurisdiction and operate together to ensure large MNE Groups are subject to a minimum effective tax rate of 15% on any excess profits arising in each jurisdiction wh ere 
they operate. Consistent with the intention of the Inclusive Framework, the GloBE Rules (including the IIR 
and UTPR) are designed so that the imposition of top- up tax in accordance with those rules will be 
compatible with the provisions of the United N ations Model Double Taxation Convention between 
Developed and Developing Countries (the “UN Model Double Tax Convention”)  (UN, 2021
[3]) and the 
Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital: Condensed Version 2017, (the “OECD Model Tax 
Convention”) (OECD, 2017 [4]).  
3. The Commentary to the GloBE Model Rules was approved and released by the Inclusive 
Framework on 14 March 2022, together with a set of detailed examples that illustrate the application of the 
rules to certain fact patterns. The Commentary clarifies the interpretation and operation of the provisions 
in the GloBE Model Rules and includes some examples illustrating how the rules apply to specific fact 
patterns. The Commentary is intended to promote a consistent and common interpretation of the GloBE 
Model Rules in order to provide certainty for MNE Groups and to facilitate coordinated outcomes under 
the rules. Although the Commentary is detailed and comprehensive, it does not provide guidance on every aspect of the GloBE Model Rules and, in certain cases, the Commentary specifically identifies issues that 
will require further consideration and development as part of the GloBE Implementation Framework.  6 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Agreed Adminis trative Guidance  
4. Against this background, Inclusive Framework members have agreed, under Article 8.3 of the 
GloBE Rules, that an implementing jurisdiction will “apply the GloBE Rules consistent with Agreed 
Administrative Guidance, subject to any requirements of domestic law.”  Agreed Administrative Guidance 
is defined in Article 10.1 as guidance issued by the Inclusive Framework on either “the interpretation or 
administration of the GloBE Rules”. Administrative Guidance is expected to play an important role in 
promoting certainty under the GloBE Rules by clarifying the interpretation of the GloBE Rules and by providing guidance to tax administrations on how to apply the GloBE Rules. Because Agreed 
Administrative Guidance will also reflect the Inclusive Framework’s common understanding of how the 
GloBE Rules should be interpreted and applied, such guidance will play an important role in ensuring 
coordinated outcomes under the GloBE Rules and providing a level playing field for MNE Groups  and will 
be needed on an ongoing basis to address issues as they arise.  
5. The definition of Agreed Administrative Guidance in Article 10.1 of the GloBE Rules envisions that 
the Inclusive Framework may issue guidance on both the interpretation and the operation of the rules. Interpretive guidance provides for consistent and common interpretation of the GloBE Rules that will 
provide certainty for MNE Groups and facilitate coordinated and transparent outcomes under the rules. It 
supplements or replaces paragraphs in the Commentary or explains how to apply the language of the rules 
to particular fact patterns. Operational guidance sets out administrative procedures tax administrations 
may use to apply the rules and may include guidance on the use of administrative simplifications that  result 
in equivalent outcomes as those provided under the GloBE Rules while avoiding undue compliance and administration costs.  
2023 Administrative Guidance  
6. This document sets out the second set of Administrative Guidance items released by the Inclusive 
Framework, follow ing the first set of Administrative Guidance items that were published in February 2023.  
This second set includes guidance on currency conversion rules when performing GloBE calculations, on  
tax credits, and on the application of the Subst ance- based Income Exclusion (SBIE). It also includes further 
guidance on the design of Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Taxes  (QDMTT) as well as a  QDMTT Safe 
Harbour . Finally , this document provides  a Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour .  
7. The Administrative Guidance will be incorporated into a revised version of the Commentary that 
will be released later this year (and replaces the original version of the Commentary issued in March 2022). The examples included in the Administrative Guidance wil l be incorporated into a revised set of detailed 
examples that will be released alongside the revised Commentary. The Inclusive Framework will continue 
to consider Administrative Guidance priorities on an ongoing basis, where more clarity is required, with the 
aim of releasing guidance throughout the year as soon as it is agreed so that the Inclusive Framework 
members can meet their implementation schedule.    | 7 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Introduction 
1. A rticle 3.1.2 of the GloBE Rules specifies that “Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss is the net 
income or loss determined for a Constituent Entity (before any consolidation adjustments eliminating intra-
group transactions) in preparing Consolidated Financial Statements of the Ultimate Parent Entity”. 
However, neither the G loBE Rules nor the Commentary provide specific guidance in relation to how the 
relevant GloBE items will be presented and calculated in accordance with the accounting standard used 
in the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Ultimate Parent Entity (or under Article 
3.1.3, if applicable) including the relevant currency the amounts are required to be in for the purposes of GloBE calculations.  
2. F urther, in February 2023, “Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of the Economy – 
Administrative Guidance on the Global Anti -Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two)” was released that 
included updated Commentary in relation to “Rebasing monetary thresholds in the GloBE Rules 
[AG22.04.T18]”. Under this guidance, jurisdictions are permitted to express GloBE thresholds in a locally 
denominated currency subject to certain requirements.  
3. To ensure that the GloBE Rules work effectively, implementing jurisdictions must apply the rules 
consistently and coordinate their approach to calculations  where foreign currency translations are required . 
This may avoid discrepancies caused by different currencies used in calculations within MNE Groups, 
which could lead to disputes over the application of the GloBE Rules.  
4. Further  guidance may be issued clarifying the interaction of this guidance with specific articles of 
the GloBE Rules and the Commentary. In addition, guidance on foreign currency translation rules for 
Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- Up Taxes will be provided separately, along with information on how it 
relates to this guidance.   
5. This guidance also provides an update to the Commentary of the GloBE Rules as amended by the 
Administrative Guidance in relation to Rebasing monetary thresholds in the GloBE Rules  [AG22.04.T18] 
to ensure that the rebasing rules also apply to Euro- denominated thresholds incorporated in the 
Commentary through Administrative Guidance.  
Issues to be considered  
6. There are four specific issues in relation to currency conversion rules for the purposes of MNE 
Groups undertaking the relevant calculations required under the GloBE Rules. These are:  
a. In which currency should the GloBE calculations be made, including for disclosure 
purposes in the GloBE Information Return?  1 General Currency Conversion Rules 
for the GloBE Rules  8 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  b. Where amounts relevant to the GloBE  calculations are not already translated into 
the currency required under sub- paragraph (a) for purposes of preparing 
Consolidated Financial Statements, how should these amounts be translated?  
c. What currency translation rules should apply for the purposes of translating any 
Top-Up Tax under the IIR or the UTPR Top- Up Tax Amount  determined using the 
currency required under sub- paragraph (a) into the currency in which the GloBE 
tax liability is pay able?  
d. What currency translation rules  apply  for the purposes of determining whether a 
monetary  threshold has been met where the monetary threshold is expressed in 
a currency different from the currency required under sub- paragraph (a)?  
7. Co-ordinated forei gn currency translation rules are required to ensure consistent application of the 
GloBE Rules  across implementing jurisdictions. Any uniformity in foreign currency translation rules needs 
to balance consistency in application of implementing jurisdictions , with sufficient flexibility to allow MNE 
Groups to be able to comply with the GloBE Rules without having to undertake excess compliance 
requirements while minimising potential distortions caused by foreign exchange movements. For example, 
requiring the s ame currency translation logic for all transactions could provide consistency across 
jurisdictions but would not be consistent with how MNE Groups apply currency translation rules in their 
Consolidated Financial Statements and would require re- translations  of many figures solely for GloBE 
purposes. Further any uniform foreign currency translation rules must be fit for purpose considering the 
relevant context to which the rule applies.  
The currency in which the GloBE calculations should be made, including f or disclosure 
purposes in the GloBE Information Return.  
8. Paragraph 14 of the Introduction to the Commentary for the GloBE Rules notes the following:  
The GloBE Rules are intended to be implemented as part of a common approach. A jurisdiction 
that joins the common approach is not required to adopt the GloBE Rules but, if it chooses to do 
so, it agrees to implement and administer them in a way that is consistent with the outcomes 
provided under the GloBE Rules and this Commentary. Consistency in the implementation and 
administration of the GloBE Rules is intended to result in a transparent and comprehensive system 
of taxation that provides predictable outcomes for MNEs and avoids the risk of double or over -
taxation.   
9. The intention of specific foreign currency translation rules  for GloBE purpose  is to provide a 
consistent basis of translation to avoid potential disputes and to avoid duplicate translation exercises.  It is 
also intended to provide tax administrations with the ability to rely on the MNE Group’s current accounting processes in the preparation of the MNE Group’s audited Consolidated Financial Statement to the 
determine of amounts relevant for the application of the GloBE Rules.  
10. Article 3.1.2 states that the amounts relevant for determining the Fin ancial Accounting Net Income 
or Loss of a Constituent Entity are those used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Ultimate Parent Entity. Under financial accounting standards, MNE Groups are ultimately required 
to present their  Consolidated Financial Statements in the presentation currency of the MNE Group. 
However, all Constituent Entities in an MNE Group may not be required to have separate financial 
statements and Constituent Entities within a jurisdiction do not always operate in the same accounting 
and/or tax functional currency. Frequently, Permanent Establishments will also not have separate financial 
statements and the financial accounts of the Main Entity will not be maintained in the currency of the 
jurisdiction in whic h the Permanent Establishment operates.        | 9 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  11. Where controlled subsidiaries operate in an accounting functional currency different to the 
presentation currency of the MNE Group, the accounting standards prescribe specific rules for the foreign 
exchange translation of relevant amounts of a subsidiary into the presentation currency of the MNE Group. 
MNE Groups may undertake the accounting consolidation process and the foreign exchange translation 
of amounts not expressed in the presentation currency of the Consolidated Financial Statements in a 
variety of manners. However, the relevant processes and amounts are likely to be subject to scrutiny as 
part an audit process, where one is required to be conducted. The reliance on such amounts and the relevant processes are a fundamental tenet of the GloBE Rules.  
12. Given the GloBE  Rules rely heavily on the amounts used in the preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of an MNE Group, the amounts most relevant to the GloBE calculations may have 
already been translated into the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements as part of the accounting consolidation process. Therefore, it is logical that GloBE calculations 
undertaken by an MNE Group should be undertaken in the presentatio n currency of the MNE Group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. For most MNE Groups, these amounts have been subject to audit as 
part of the preparation of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements and therefore provide a 
consistent and reliable basis for the application of the GloBE calculations.  
13. Given the GloBE calculations are ultimately aggregated at the MNE Group level, MNE Groups are 
required in practice to report the aggregated amounts in a single currency  regardless of any foreign 
exchange translation rules applied.  
14. Further, relying  on amounts being in the presentation currency of the MNE Group for calculation 
and reporting purposes should ensure that the compliance burden on Covered Groups is not increased 
unnecessarily and does not requir e amounts to be retranslated again if they have already been translated 
into the presentation currency of the MNE Group.  
15. MNE Groups will be required to undertake all the relevant calculations for the GloBE Rules and 
report the relevant amounts in the GloBE  Information Return in the presentation currency of the MNE 
Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements. That is, the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements will form the foundational basis for the GloBE calculations. Ther efore, 
all relevant amounts will need to be translated to the presentation currency of the MNE Group. This should 
allow for a common basis and expression of amounts for determining the application of the GloBE Rules 
to an MNE Group.  
Where amounts relevant to the GloBE calculations are not already translated into the 
presentation currency, how should these amounts be translated?  
16. As described in paragraph 118.17 of the Commentary to Article 10.1, Authorised Financial 
Accounting Standards permit MNE Groups to employ either of two basic paradigms for converting 
transactions from the local functional accounting currency to the presentation currency of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements . Under the first , transactions conducted in a currency other than the presentation 
currency are contemporaneously translated and recorded in the financial accounts in the presentation  
currency. Under the second , transactions are recorded in the financial accounts in the functional currency 
of the Constituent E ntity and translated to the Consolidated Financial Statements  presentation currency in 
the consolidation process.  Accounting systems  used by MNE Groups  may differ significantly in how much 
of the data needed for the GloBE calculations is reported in accord ance with the Authorised Financial  
Accounting Standard and readily available in the necessary detail  in the presentation currency of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.  
17. MNE  Groups using the first paradigm are likely to have most of their data relevant for the 
calculations readily available in the presentation currency. MNE  Groups  using the second paradigm will 
often only have aggregated data available at the consolidated level in the presentation currency . As this 10 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  data is frequently not sufficiently det ailed  for many of the GloBE calculations and adjustments, these MNE  
Groups will have to rely on data available in the local accounting functional currency  of a Constituent Entity 
(i.e., pre- consolidation amounts) . Hence, not all of the relevant amounts for  GloBE purposes will be readily 
available in  the presentation currency the Consolidated Financial Statements  of the MNE Group. However, 
whether the data is collected from the MNE Group’s accounting system post -translation (in the presentation 
currency of t he Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group) or pre-translation  (in the local 
functional currency), it is fundamentally the same information reported according to the underlying 
Authorised Financial A ccounting Standard of the MNE Group.  
18. Therefore, where an MNE Group has amounts that have not been translated to the presentatio n 
currency as part of the accounting consolidation process but those amounts need to be translated for 
purposes of the GloBE calculations, MNE Groups will be required to translate such amounts in accordance with the applicable foreign currency translation rules in the Authorised Financial Accounting Standard used 
to compute the Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss of Constituent Entities in the jurisdiction.  The 
applicable foreign currency translation rules include the equivalent of IAS 21 or ASC 830, as  well as other 
parts of the Authorised Financial Accounting Standard that relate to specific currency translation issues, 
such as currency translation in a hyperinflationary environment.  
19. Requiring the GloBE calculations to be undertaken in local currency of the jurisdiction where a 
Constituent Entity is located (but in accordance with the Authorised Financial Accounting Standard 
applicable to the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statement) and the use of a single foreign exchange 
rate to be uniformly appl ied to translate amounts of a Constituent Entity to the presentation currency of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, may have some simplicity advantages over using the principles in the 
accounting standards. However, it is not considered appropriate bec ause it lacks sufficient flexibility and 
may embed potential foreign exchange related distortions into the aggregated GloBE calculations for the 
MNE Group, especially in specific situations (i.e., hyperinflationary economies).  
20. IAS 21 and ASC 830 (and their  equivalents in other Authorised Financial Accounting Standards) 
provides principles for foreign currency translation of the amounts of a subsidiary, depending on 
classification of the relevant amount and the characteristics of the subsidiary. For purposes  of determining 
the translation exchange rates to use for particular items relevant to the GloBE calculations, MNE Group’s 
will be able to utilise the flexibility in determining the relevant exchange rate afforded by the Authorised 
Financial Accounting Standard applicable to its Consolidated Financial Statements, subject to the 
principles set out in that standard. For example, IAS 21 centers around three main principles:  
• Practicality: although IAS 21 defaults to  the exchange rates at the closing or transac tion dates 
(i.e., spot  rate), it stipulates that MNE  Groups may use approximations such as average rates for 
the relevant period for practical reasons (if it is not a currency of a hyperinflationary economy or 
where the currency for other reasons fluctuates significantly).
1  
• Consistency : although IAS 21 does not prescribe when and how a group might change the 
translation logic  (such as spot rate, monthly average, annual average) , IAS 21 generally allows  
changes to the currencies used (functional currencies  or presentation currency) only if there is a 
change to the underlying transactions, events , and conditions.2  
• Transparency : IAS 21 requires Groups to disclose the fact and the reason for any changes to the 
functional currency.3  
21. For example, IAS 21 pres cribes that i ncome and expense items be translated based on  exchange 
rates  at the dates of the transactions  (i.e., spot rate) . However, the use of average rates is permitted for 
 
1 IAS 21, ¶ 40.  
2 IAS 21, ¶¶ 13 and 36) . 
3 IAS 21, ¶54.    | 11 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  practical reasons unless exchange rates are subject to significant fluctuation, most notably in hyperinflation 
economies. The frequency of measurement of the exchange rate (weekly, monthly, or yearly) will be 
dependent on the practicality of information available to the MNE Group and whether the frequency gives 
a reasonable appr oximation of the actual exchange rate. This may also differ depending on the relevant 
income or expense item.  
22. MNE Groups will be required to adhere to the principles set out in the relevant accounting 
standards on currency translation when translating amounts for GloBE purposes, just as they would if the amounts were subject to these requirements under the relevant Authorised Financial Accounting Standard.  
Foreign currency translation rules applicable for the purposes of translating any Top- Up 
Tax under t he IIR or the UTPR Top- Up Tax Amount  determined using the presentation 
currency into the currency in which the GloBE tax liability is payable.  
23. Given the relevant calculations for GloBE purposes will be undertaken in the presentation currency 
of the MNE Gr oup’s Consolidated Financial Statements, the Top- Up Tax under the IIR or the UTPR Top-
Up Tax Amount allocated to Constituent Entities in accordance with Chapter 2 of the GloBE Rules may 
need to be translated into local currency of the implementing jurisdic tion for the purposes of assessment 
and/or payment.  
24. However, uniformity in foreign exchange translation to local currency for these purposes is not 
necessary to ensure consistent application of the GloBE Rules because the relevant underlying GloBE 
calcula tions have been undertaken in the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Therefore, implementing jurisdictions are to determine their own foreign currency 
translation rules applicable to translate amounts from the presentation currency into local currency, provided the exchange rate is considered reasonable on the basis that it is determined by reference to 
exchanges rates during the Fiscal Year or payment date. Jurisdictions may choose to adopt any 
reasonable foreign currency translation basis, including (but not restricted to):  
• The average foreign exchange rate for the Fiscal Year;  
• The foreign exchange rate on the last day of the Fiscal Year; or  
• The foreign exchange rate on the date payment is required.  
25. While jurisdictions are free to choose any foreign exchange translation basis, it is recommended 
that specific rules are adopted in domestic legislation to give MNE Group’s certainty to comply with the GloBE Rules.  
Foreign currency translation rules for d etermining whether a GloBE threshold expressed 
in a currency other than the presentation currency has been me t 
26. Under paragraphs 19.1 and 19.2 of the Introduction to the Commentary of the GloBE Rules, where 
the thresholds are expressed in domestic legislati on in a non- EUR currency, the amounts will need to be 
rebased annually to ensure a coordinated application of the GloBE Rules as well as consistency in the 
thresholds used by different jurisdictions on an ongoing basis.  
27. Under paragraphs 19.1 and 19.2, the  relevant thresholds are rebased in domestic legislation 
based on the average foreign exchange rate for the December month  of the previous Fiscal Year. The 
previous December monthly average exchange rate for rebasing amounts in non- EUR currency was 
chosen because the rate needed to be incorporated into domestic legislation prior to or before the end of 
the Fiscal Year to give certainty to MNE Groups . This applies to all monetary thresholds in the GloBE Rules 
and Commentary, including:  12 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  a. Articles 1.1, 1.2 and 6.1.1 – which refer to revenue included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements equal to or greater than EUR 750 million.    
b. Article 3.1.3 – which refers to permanent differences in excess of EUR 1 million.  
c. Articles 4.6.1 and 4.6.4 – which refer to an aggregate decrease of less (Article 
4.6.1) or more (Article 4.6.4) than EUR 1 million in the Adjusted Covered Taxes.  
d. Paragraphs 5.5.1(a) and (b) –  which refer to Average GloBE Revenue of such 
jurisdiction is less than EUR 10 million and Average GloBE I ncome or Loss of such 
jurisdiction is a loss or is less than EUR 1 million.  
e. Article 9.3.2 –  which refers the sum of the Net Book Values of Tangible Assets of 
all Constituent Entities located in all jurisdictions other than the Reference 
Jurisdiction does n ot exceed EUR 50 million.  
f. Article 10, ‘ Material Competitive Distortion’ – which refers to the aggregate 
variation greater than EUR 75 million in a Fiscal Year as compared to the amount 
that would have been determined by applying the corresponding IFRS principle or 
procedure.  
g. Article 10, ‘ Policy Disallowed Expenses ’ – which refers to expenses accrued by 
the Constituent Entity for fines and penalties that equal or exceed EUR 50 000.  
28. Where the presentation currency of the MNE Group differs from the currency in  which thresholds 
are expressed in the domestic law of an implementing jurisdiction, the amount calculated in the 
presentation currency will need to be translated to determine whether the relevant threshold is met. While 
the general foreign exchange transl ation rules above require foreign exchange translation to be undertaken 
in accordance with the accounting standards, relying on the accounting standards to translate the amount relevant to the monetary th
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: resholds may not be possible as the accounting standards are based on 
translating amounts to the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements, 
not translating those amounts to another currency. Further, reliance on other metrics, such as the average 
rate for the Fiscal Year or the spot rate on the last day of the Fiscal Year to determine whether the relevant 
threshold is met may lead to inconsistent outcomes between jurisdictions where the threshold has been 
rebased in domestic legislation in a non- EUR currency . 
29. Therefore, for t he purposes of determining whether the relevant threshold has been met, the MNE 
Group will be required to translate the relevant amount from its presentation currency to the currency in 
which the relevant threshold is expressed in domestic law, based on the average foreign exchange rate 
for the December month of the previous Fiscal Year . This will ensure consistency in application of monetary 
thresholds across jurisdictions. This mirrors the requirement for the jurisdiction to rebase annually  GloBE 
monetary  thresholds expressed in local currency.  
30. The average foreign exchange rate for the December month of the previous Fiscal Year will be 
determined by:  
• If the domestic threshold is expressed in EUR -  the foreign exchange rates as quoted by the 
European Centr al Bank (ECB). Where the ECB does not provide a foreign exchange reference 
rate for the local currency of a jurisdiction, the average foreign exchange rate will be determined 
based on the rate quoted by the jurisdiction’s Central Bank.    
• If the domestic t hreshold is expressed in a non- EUR currency -  the average foreign exchange rate 
will be determined based on the rate quoted by the jurisdiction’s Central Bank.  
31. It is recognised that this may lead to counter -intuitive outcomes in some cases. For example, a 
Constituent Entity applying Article 3.1.3 may have permanent differences in its financial accounts 
expressed in GBP, the local currency, below the rebased GBP equivalent of EUR 1 million . However,   | 13 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  because the permanent differences are required to be transl ated to the MNE Group’s presentation 
currency (for example, USD) based on the average rate of the Fiscal Year and then translated from USD 
to GBP based on the December average of the previous Fiscal Year, it may be the case that due to foreign 
exchange eff ects, the permanent differences exceed or fall below the rebased GBP equivalent of 
EUR  1 million . However, without this rule, there is a significant risk that a monetary threshold may be met 
in one implementing jurisdiction but not in another due to foreig n exchange rate effects, which would result 
in inconsistent and uncoordinated outcomes across jurisdictions.  
32. However, the guidance above is limited to determining whether the relevant threshold has been 
exceeded. To the extent that the relevant threshold i s exceeded, any resulting adjustment will be based 
on the amount translated in accordance with the general principles prescribed in paragraphs 16 to 22 
above. That is, the amount of the adjustment may be different to amount for determining whether the 
relevant threshold has been met.  
33. This guidance also provides an update to the Commentary of the GloBE Rules as amended by the 
Administrative Guidance in relation to Rebasing monetary thresholds in the GloBE Rules  [AG22.04.T18] 
to ensure that the rebasing rules also apply to Euro- denominated thresholds incorporated in the 
Commentary through Administrative Guidance. This also applies to any future Euro- denominated 
thresholds incorporated in the Commentary of the GloBE Rules by Administrative Guidance. For exampl e, 
the guidance applies to the De Minimis test (Total Revenue of less than EUR 10 million and Profit (Loss) 
before Income Tax of less than EUR 1 million) under the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour . 
Guidance  
34. The following guidance will be inserted after paragraph 17 of the Introduction to the Commentary:  
17.1 In addition, to ensure the co- ordination and consistency of an MNE Group’s GloBE 
calculations in each jurisdiction, MNE Groups will be required to undertake their GloBE calculations 
for each relevant jur isdiction in the presentation currency of their Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The presentation currency of the MNE Group is the currency in which its Consolidated 
Financial Statements are presented. This requirement applies regardless of the local cur rency of 
the relevant jurisdiction.  
17.2 Depending on the accounting and consolidation processes within a MNE Group, many of the amounts needed for GloBE computations will have been translated to the presentation currency 
based on the Authorised Financial  Accounting Standard in connection with the preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Accounts. Other amounts that are relevant to the GloBE calculations will 
not have been translated for purposes of the Consolidated Financial Statements, either because 
those amounts do not exist in presentation currency or because the amounts are translated at the 
aggregate level for GloBE computation purposes post accounting consolidation (i.e., not at the 
Constituent Entity level). These amounts will need to be translated to the presentation currency 
specifically for GloBE computation purposes. An MNE Group must translate amounts necessary 
for the GloBE calculations to the presentation currency pursuant to the relevant currency translation principles of the Authorised Financial Accounting Standard used to prepare its 
Consolidated Financial Statements (for example, IAS 21 or ASC 830), regardless of whether such 
translations are required for preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements or for other 
financial accounti ng purposes.    
17.3 After the amount  of Top-Up Tax allocable (or equivalent adjustment) to a Constituent Entity 
in accordance with Chapter 2 of the GloBE Rules in the MNE Group's presentation currency  has 
been determined, jurisdictions are free to apply their own  foreign currency translation rules to 
convert the  Top-up Tax  liability due in their jurisdiction into local currency, as long as the exchange 14 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  rate used is reasonable and relevant to the Fiscal Year . Jurisdictions may choose to adopt any 
reasonable foreign exchange translation basis, including (but not restricted to):  
a. The average foreign exchange rate for the Fiscal Year;  
b. The foreign exchange rate on the last day of the Fiscal Year; or  
c. The foreign exchange rate on the date payment is required.  
While jurisdictions are free to choose any foreign exchange translation basis, it is recommended 
that specific rules are adopted in domestic legislation to give MNE Group’s certainty to comply with the GloBE Rules.  
35. The following language will be inserted in subparagraph (h) in paragraph 19.1 of the Introduction 
to the Commentary:  
19.1  
h. Any Euro- denominated threshold incorporated into the Commentary of the GloBE Rules 
through Administrative Guidance.  
36. The following guidance will be inserted after paragraph 20 of the Introduction to the Commentary:  
20.1 To mini mise potential distortions and t o ensure consistent application of the monetary 
thresholds in the GloBE Rules, the MNE Group must translate the relevant threshold amounts from 
its presentation currency to the currency used in the implementing jurisdiction' s domestic law 
based on the same average foreign exchange rate for the December month of the calendar year 
prior to the commencement of the relevant Fiscal Year . The average foreign exchange rate for the 
December month of the previous Fiscal Year will be determined by:  
• If the domestic threshold is expressed in EUR -  the foreign exchange reference rates as 
quoted by the European Central Bank (ECB). Where the ECB do es not provide a foreign 
exchange reference rate for the local currency of a jurisdiction, the average foreign exchange rate will be determined by that quoted by the implementing jurisdiction’s Central 
Bank.    
• If the domestic threshold is expressed in a non- EUR currency -  the average foreign 
exchange rate will be determined by that quoted by the implementing jurisdiction’s Central Bank.  
20.2 Similar to the explanation provided in paragraph 19.2 above, where a threshold amount has 
been calculated in relation to the previous Fiscal Year, MNE Groups will not be required recalculate 
and retranslate the amount based on the December average exchange rate applicable to the 
current Fiscal Year. That is, the amount of revenue of the MNE Group (for example, 
EUR  750 million) for the Fiscal Year commencing in 2023, translated into local currency based on 
the average foreign exchange rate for the month of December 2022 determined by the foreign exchange reference rates as quoted by the ECB, will remain the same for local  currency purposes, 
for the purposes of calculations (for example, Article 1.1) for future Fiscal Years.   
20.3 Where a jurisdiction does not rely European Central Bank’s exchange rates, to assist taxpayers in undertaking the necessary foreign exchange tra nslations, it is recommended that 
jurisdictions make the average rates calculated by reference to the jurisdiction’s Central Bank 
quoted rates for the month of December publicly available.   
20.4 It is recognised that this translation requirement may lead to counter -intuitive outcomes for 
MNE Groups. For example, MNE Group members in a jurisdiction may have an accounting 
functional currency in local currency. Under Article 3.1.3, a Constituent Entity in its financial 
accounts (expressed in the local currenc y, for example GBP) may have permanent differences   | 15 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  below the rebased GBP equivalent of EUR 1 million . However, because the permanent differences 
are required to be translated to the MNE Group’s presentation currency (for example, USD) based 
on the average rate of the Period and then translated from USD to GBP based on the December 
average of the previous Fiscal Year, it may be the case that due to foreign exchange effects, the 
permanent differences exceed the rebased GBP equivalent of EUR 1  million . Similar ly, the foreign 
exchange translation rules may also have the opposite effect. However, given the fundamental 
importance that the GloBE monetary thresholds apply consistently across implementing 
jurisdictions, such outcomes are considered acceptable to give certainty to MNE Groups and tax 
administrations in the application of the GloBE Rules to a Covered Group for a Fiscal Year.  
37. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, 
paragraphs  21 and 22 of the Introduction to the Commentary:  
21. Where a jurisdiction implements GloBE Rules using monetary thresholds that are in a currency 
other than Euros this creates the potential for differences in the application of the GloBE Rules 
between that jurisdiction and other jurisdictions. For example, Country Y could use its local 
currency to set the monetary threshold for determining whether a fine or penalty falls within the 
definition of a Policy Disallowed Expense. While this threshold is originally set at the local currency 
equivalent of EUR 50 000, the value of Y$ may subsequently fall against the Euro such that, when 
the threshold is applied, the actual monetary threshold is set at the equivalent of EUR 35 000. In 
this case, the drop in the exchange rate effectively results i n a potential increase in the 
measurement of the GloBE tax base under Country Y law for certain MNE Groups because it 
results in fines and penalties being added- back to the calculation of GloBE Income, thereby 
increasing the denominator of the ETR calculat ion. In the rare circumstances where there are 
differences in the application of a threshold in one jurisdiction from other jurisdictions and in the determination of the GloBE tax base, these differences could potentially , in turn, have 
adverse implications for co -ordination and rule order. Such differences could result in 
a jurisdiction applying the charging provisions under Chapter  2 in circumstances that were not 
contemplated by the GloBE Rules, thereby undermining the expected outcomes for another 
jurisdiction that has also adopted these rules.  
22. Accordingly, jurisdictions that implement monetary thresholds in a currency other than Euros 
mus
t create provision in their law to ensure that any such differences do not result in outcomes 
that are inconsist ent with the common approach and the intended outcomes under the Model Rules 
and this Commentary. Such coordination mechanisms may be considered as part of the process for assessing whether the domestic rules meet the qualification standards for a Qualifie d IIR, 
Qualified UTPR or Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax. MNE Groups using a currency different to the 
local currency under domestic law.  
38. Paragraphs 23 and 24 of the Introduction to the Commentary of the GloBE Rules will be deleted.  
39. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the language in strikethrough will be removed from, 
paragraph 13 of the Commentary to Article 1.1:  
13. In cases where the revenue threshold in a jurisdiction’s domestic law is set in a currency 
other than the Euro and the revenue threshold is revised  on a yearly basis, the applicable 
revenue threshold for the Fiscal Year is the last revenue threshold in effect as of the beginning of the Fiscal Year.  As discussed in paragraphs 19.1 through 19.2, jurisdictions will be required 
to re -base non -EUR denominated thresholds annually, based on the average exchange rate 
of the December of the previous calendar year. For example, Country A rebases its revenue 
threshold in local currency in December  January of each year  based on the average rate of the 
December of the previous calendar year , effective for Fiscal Years beginning on or after 
1 January. The MNE Group has a Fiscal Year that starts on 1 July 2024 and ends on 30 June 
2025. The MNE Group applies the revenue threshold that is in effect on 1 July 2024.  16 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  40. The following guidance will be inserted after paragraph 13 of the Commentary to Article 1.1:  
13.1 At the end of the Fiscal Year commencing 1 July 2024, the MNE Group will need to determine 
whether it meets the relevant GloBE monetary thresholds in the jurisdiction. If the presentation 
currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements d iffers from the currency in which 
the GloBE monetary thresholds are expressed in the jurisdiction’s domestic law, the MNE Group 
will be required to translate the amount from the presentation currency to the currency prescribed 
in the jurisdiction’s domesti c law based on the average exchange rate of the December month of 
the calendar year immediately preceding the start of the MNE Group’s Fiscal Year. Following the 
example in paragraph 13 above, for the Fiscal Year commencing 1 July 2024, the MNE Group 
would use the average exchange rate for December 2023 in translating its revenue to local 
currency to apply the relevant threshold.    
41. The following guidance will be inserted after paragraphs 10 of the Commentary to Article 2:  
10.1 As noted in paragraphs 17.1 and 17.2 of the Introduction to this Commentary, MNE Groups 
are required to undertake the GloBE calculations for all jurisdiction in the presentation currency of 
the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Therefore,  Top-Tax liability allocated to 
Constituent Entities (including any relevant reduction) under Article 2 will be calculated in the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Therefore, MNE 
Groups may be required to translate the Top- Up Tax liability expressed in the presentation 
currency of its Consolidated Financial Statements to the local currency of the jurisdiction to which 
the amount is applicable. As jurisdictions may choose to adopt any reasonable foreign exchange translation basis for this, MNE Groups will need to make such translations based on the specific 
provisions contained in the domestic law of the relevant jurisdiction.  
42. The following guidance will be inserted after paragraph 5 of the Commentary of the GloBE Rules 
for Article 3.1.2:  
5.1 The GloBE Income or Loss of all Constituent Entities should be calculated in the presentation 
currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Accounts . This means that the Financial 
Accounting Net Income or Loss of a Constitue nt Entity is the net income or loss determined for the 
Constituent Entity in preparing the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements, that has been 
translated into the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements 
(before a ny consolidation adjustments eliminating intra- group transactions ). In addition, all 
amounts relevant to determining the GloBE Income or Loss of a Constituent Entity will need to be 
translated into the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Accounts in accordance with the relevant Authorised Financial Accounting Standard used in preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. This is regardless of whether the Financial Account Standard requires such amounts to be translated to the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements.  
5.2 The Accounting Standards permit MNE Groups to employ either of two basic paradigms for 
converting transactions from the local functional currency to the presentation curr ency of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group. Under the first , transactions conducted in 
the functional currency are contemporaneously translated and recorded in the financial accounts in the presentation currency. Under the second, trans actions are recorded in the financial accounts 
in the functional currency and translated to the Consolidated Financial Statements  presentation  
currency in the consolidation process.  For this and other reasons, MNE Group’s accounting 
systems may differ sign ificantly in how much of the data is translated so that it can be reported in 
the presentation currency.  Consequently, some of the data that is needed for the GloBE 
calculations is readily available in the presentation currency of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements  and some is not .    | 17 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  5.3 MNEs using the first paradigm are likely to have most of their data relevant for determining a 
Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or Loss  readily available in the presentation currency of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group. MNE Groups will not be required to 
retranslate amounts that have already been translated under the relevant accounting standard in 
the preparation of their Consolidated Financial Statement.  
5.4 MNE Group’s using the second  paradigm wi ll often only have aggregated data available at 
consolidated level in the presentation. Hence, not all or even very few of the relevant amounts for 
GloBE purposes will be readily available in the presentation currency the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the MNE Group. Where the GloBE Rules require calculations or adjustments based 
on more detailed data, these MNE Groups will have to rely on data , which is often only  available 
in local functional currency  of the Constituent Entity . Using such data as the starting point for the 
GloBE calculations should not create integrity risks because whether the data is collected from the 
MNE Group’s accounting system after consolidation (in the presentation currency) or pre-
consolidation  (in the local functional curr ency), it is fundamentally the same information used to 
develop the Consolidated Financial Statements, provided the amounts are recorded in accordance 
with the Accounting Standard applicable to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE 
Group (but not yet translated to the presentation currency).   
5.5 Where this is the case, the relevant amounts required to determine a Constituent Entity’s 
GloBE Income or Loss will need to be translated to the presentation currency in accordance with 
the principles pr escribed by the equivalent of IAS 21 and ASC 830 of the relevant Authorised 
Financial Accounting Standard used in preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 
addition, other parts of the relevant Authorised Financial Accounting Standard that d eal with 
foreign exchange translations shall also be applicable, including the relevant guidance in relation 
to hyperinflation.  
5.6 Accounting S tandards are not prescriptive in how MNE  Groups should set their translation logic 
from functional currency to presentation currency . For example, the standards do not specify a 
translation logic, such as spot rate or annual average, for specific types of transactions.  Instead, 
these standards are pri nciple -based, providing a framework around how MNE  Groups are to set 
an appropriate translation logic.  This framework provides MNE Groups with some flexibility to 
choose an appropriate translation logic and the ability to choose different translation logic s for 
different transactions and accounts. Therefore, MNE Groups using the second paradigm (as 
described in paragraph 5.4) will be afforded the same flexibility available under the relevant 
accounting standard. However, in determining the relevant translat ion logic, MNE Group’s will be 
required to meet the reasonable approximation requirements of the relevant Authorised 
Accounting Standard, as if the relevant amount were being translated directly as part of the 
accounting consolidation process.   
43. The follow ing guidance will be inserted after paragraph 16 of the Commentary  to Article 3.1.3:  
16.1 Similar to the requirement for Article 3.1.2, amounts determined in accordance with Article 
3.1.3 must be translated into the presentation currency of the Consolidate d Financial Statements 
for the purpose of determining a Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or Loss in accordance with the 
guidance set out in paragraphs 5 to 5.6 of the Commentary to Article 3.1.2. This requirement 
applies regardless of the fact that such a mounts may have been determined in accordance with 
another Authorised Financial Accounting Standard. Unless the foreign currency translation requirements of the Authorised Financial Accounting Standards used pursuant to Article 3.1.3 
significantly diverge from those of the Authorised Financial Accounting Standard used to prepare 
the Consolidated Financial Statements, it is expected that the foreign currency translation logic 
applicable to any amounts required to be translated to the presentation currency would be the 18 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  same as if the amounts had been translated under the accounting standard used to prepare the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.    
44. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, 
paragraphs  66 through 74 of the Commentary to Article 3.2.1:  
Paragraph (f) - Asymmetric Foreign Currency Gains or Losses  
66. Paragraph (f) adjusts for Asymmetric Foreign Currency Gain or Loss. These are generally foreign currency exchange gains or losses (FXGL) that arise due to differences between the 
Constituent Entity’s  functional currency for accounting purposes and the one used for local tax 
purposes.  
67. The GloBE Rules do not make any adjustments for FXGL when the accounting and tax 
functional currencies of the Constituent Entity are the same. In those circumstances, any FXGL reflected in the financial accounts are included in the GloBE Income or Loss computation, 
irrespective of whether the local tax rules impose tax on FXGL. If FXGL is exempt under local tax rules, there  will be a permanent difference that does, and should, affect the ETR of the jurisdiction.  
68. The GloBE Rules do, however, make adjustments to avoid distortions that could arise when the functional currencies used by a Constituent Entity for accounting and tax differ. The definition 
of Asymmetric Foreign Currency Gain or Loss in Article 10.1 includes four types of FXGL. The FXGL included in the definition are described based on the relationship between the tax functional 
currency of the Constituent Entity , the accounting functional  currency  and a third foreign 
currency. The tax functional currency is the functional currency used to determine the Constituent 
Entity’s taxable income or loss for a Covered Tax in the jurisdiction in which it is located. The 
accounting functional currency is the functional currency used to determine of the Constituent 
Entity for accounting purposes. A third foreign currency is a currency that is not the Constituent 
Entity’s tax functional currency or accounting functional  currency. The adjustments required under 
Article 3.2.2(f) with respect to each type of Asymmetric Foreign Currency Gain or Loss are 
explained below.  
69. Paragraph (a) of the definition applies to transactions in the accounting functional  currency of 
a Constituent Entity that produce taxable gain or loss because the tax functional currency is 
different. It brings the tax FXGL into the Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss. Paragraph (a) requires a positive adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss i n the amount of the 
tax foreign currency exchange (FX) gain and a negative adjustment to Financial Accounting Net 
Income or Loss in the amount of the tax FX loss.  
70. Paragraph (a) also applies where an asset or liability denominated in the accounting functional  
currency is retranslated in the tax functional currency so that a tax FXGL arises, despite no FXGL 
arising for accounting purposes.  
71. Paragraph (b) of the definition applies to transactions in the tax functional currency of a 
Constituent Entity that produce an accounting gain or loss because the accounting functional  
currency of the Constituent Entity is different. It removes the accounting FXGL from the Financial 
Accounting Net Income or Loss. Thus, paragraph (b) requires a negative adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss in the amount of the accounting FX gain and a positive adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss in the amount of the accounting FX Loss.  
72. Paragraph (b) also applies where an asset or liability denominated in the tax functional currency is retranslated in the accounting functional  currency so that an accounting FXGL arises, but no 
FXGL arises for tax purposes.  
73. Paragraph (c) of the definition is the exclusionary arm of the rule in respect of FXGL arising 
from transactions in a third foreign currency. These transactions may result in an FXGL vis -à-vis   | 19 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  both the accounting currency  and tax functional currency of the Constituent Entity . However, 
paragraph (c) only applies to the FXGL in respect of the accounting functional  currency. It excludes 
these gains and losses from the GloBE Income or Loss computation by requiring a negative 
adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss in the amount of the accounting FX gain 
and a positive adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss in the amount of the 
accounting FX Loss.  
74. Paragraph (d) of the definition is the inclusionary arm of the rules for third foreign currency 
gains. It includes the gain or loss determined with respect to the tax functional currency by requiring a positive adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss in the amount  of the tax FX gain 
and a negative adjustment to Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss in the amount of the tax FX loss. This rule applies irrespective of whether the FXGL in the tax functional currency is includible in taxable income or subject to tax in the Constituent Entity’s location. For purposes of 
paragraph (d), if the FX gain or loss is not subject to tax under local law, the tax FX gain or loss is 
the amount that would have arisen for tax purposes if the Constituent Entity had been subject to tax on the gain or loss using the same method for determining FXGL as is used in the financial 
accounts.  
74.1 While the adjustment for Asymmetric Foreign Currency Gains and Losses is determined by reference to the Constituent Entity’s tax functional currency  and accounting 
function currency, the resulting amount of the required adjustment will need to be translated to the presentation currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements, for the purposes of determining the Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or 
Loss. This translation to the presentation currency should be undertaken in accordance with Article 3.1.2 and Article 3.1.3 and the relevant commentary to those Articles.  
45. The text in strikethrough will be removed from paragraphs 66 and 67 of the  Commentary to 
Article  3.2: 
Paragraph (g) - Policy Disallowed Expenses  
75. Paragraph (g) adjusts for Policy Disallowed Expenses which are defined in Article 10.1 to mean expenses accrued by the Constituent Entity for illegal payments, including bribes and kickbacks, 
and expenses accrued by the Constituent Entity for fines and penalties. There is a materiality threshold that prevents the rule from applying in the case of de minimis fines and because the rule 
only applies to fines and penalties that equal or exceed EUR 50 000 (or an equivalent amount in 
the functional  currency in which the Constituent Entity’s Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss 
was calculated). There is no such threshold for bribes and kickbacks which are always disallowed.  
46. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, 
paragraph 103 of the Commentary to Article 4.4.5:  
Paragraph (f)  
103. Net gains on foreign currency exchange are taken into account in paragraph (f) of Article 
4.4.5. Monetary items such as payables, receivables, and loans denominated in a foreign currency (i.e., different from the presentation  functional  currency of the MNE Group’s Consolidated 
Financial Statements used for calculation the Constituent Entity ’s GloBE Income or Los s) are 
translated at the closing rate for accounting purposes, which is the spot exchange rate at the reporting date. Any foreign exchange gains and losses are generally recognised in the financial 
accounting income of a Constituent Entity. Domestic tax laws, however, may not recognise these 
unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses until a realisation event occurs, such as a repayment 
of a loan.  
47. The text  in bold will be inserted in paragraph 83 of the Commentary to Article 5.5.1:  20 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  83. The two conditions provided in Article 5.5.1 are denominated in the Euro currency. Like the revenue 
threshold, this may require the MNE Group t
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: o convert its revenue and income into Euros and may require 
a jurisdiction that measures the de minimis conditions in local currency to re- base the de minimis threshold 
amounts on a yearly basis to align with the references provided in the GloBE Rules. Where the threshold 
is determined in a currency different to the presentation currency of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, MNE Groups should translate the relevant amounts  based on the average exchange 
rate of December for the calendar year immediately preceding the commencement of t he MNE 
Group’s Fiscal Year.  
Examples  
48. The following examples will be included in the GloBE Model Rules Examples.  
Article 3.1.2  
Example 1  
 
1. An MNE Group’s UPE is A Co, located in jurisdiction A. The MNE Group’s Consolidated 
Financial Statements are prepared using IFRS and the presentation currency is Euro.  
2. A Co has two subsidiaries, B Co (located in jurisdiction B) and C Co (located in jurisdiction C). 
Both B Co and C Co have subsidiaries also located in jurisdiction B and C respectively. The 
non-consolidated accounts for B Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with 
Japanese GAAP (J -GAAP). The functional accounting currency of B Co and its subsidiaries is 
Japanese Yen. The non- consoli dated accounts for C Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in 
accordance with US GAAP. The functional accounting currency of C Co and its subsidiaries is 
USD. None of the subsidiaries are located in a hyperinflationary economy.  
3. The MNE Group’s accounting consolidation system is set up to contemporaneously translate 
and record all entity level postings in local functional currency to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements -currency (Euro). As a result, all of the detailed data relevant for the GloBE Income 
and Loss of each Constituent Entity is readily available in the presentation currency of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements (Euro). The MNE Group’s accounting consolidation system 
uses spot rates at the date of transaction for income statement items and clo sing rates for 
  | 21 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  balance sheet items. This foreign exchange translation logic is consistent with the relevant 
principles of IFRS.  
4. The principles of IFRS may also support other foreign exchange translation logics. However, the foreign exchange translation logic used in the MNE Group’s accounting consolidation 
system should be respected under the GloBE Rules because it is consistent with the relevant 
IFRS principles.  
Example 2 
 
1. An MNE Group’s UPE is A Co, located in jurisdiction A. The MNE Group’s Consolidated 
Financial Statements are prepared using IFRS and the presentation currency is Euro.  
2. A Co has two subsidiaries, B Co (located in jurisdiction B) and C Co (located in jurisdiction C). 
Both B Co and C Co have various subsidiaries also located in jurisdicti on B and C respectively. 
The non- consolidated accounts for B Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with 
J-GAAP. The functional accounting currency of B Co and its subsidiaries is Japanese Yen. The 
non-consolidated accounts for C Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with US 
GAAP. The functional accounting currency of C Co and its subsidiaries is USD. None of the 
subsidiaries are located in a hyperinflationary economy.  
3. The MNE Group’s accounting consolidation system is set up to rec ord the entity level data in 
the local accounting functional currency and translate to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
presentation currency (Euro) in accordance with IFRS during the monthly consolidation 
process. The consolidation of the local data is completed at an aggregate account balance level 
(i.e., not per posting or transaction) using the monthly average rate for income statement items and closing rate for balance sheet items. As a result, most of the detailed data required to calculate each Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or Loss is only available in the local functional 
currency (i.e., JPY and USD).  
4. The MNE Group’s accounting system cannot determine the portion of the annual amount the income or expense that was posted in each month and thus cannot apply monthly translation 
rates to different portions of the income or expense. For practical reasons, the MNE Group 
therefore uses yearly average rates when converting the relevant profit and loss GloBE data 
points from local currency to the presentation currency. Using a yearly average rate for these 
adjustment items is appropriate under the relevant principles of IFRS.   
22 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  5. As the foreign exchange translation logic used to determine each Constituent Entity ’s GloBE 
Income or Loss  is consistent with the relevant principles of  IFRS, the conversion logic should 
be respected under the GloBE Rules.  
Example 3 
 
1. The MNE Group’s consolidated financial statements are prepared using IFRS and the Group’s 
presentation currency is Euro. The accounts for B Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in 
accordance with IFRS. The accounting functional currency of B Co and its subsidiaries is Japanese Yen. The accounts for C Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with 
IFRS. The accounting functional currency of C Co and its subsidiaries is US Dollars. None of 
the subsidiaries are located in a hyperinflationary economy.  
2. The MNE Group’s consolidation system is set up to contemporaneously translate and record all entity level postings in local functional currency to the presentation- currency  of the MNE 
Group (i.e., it uses the first conversion paradigm). Consequently, the d etailed data relevant for 
calculating each Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or Loss is readily available in the 
presentation- currency of the MNE Group (i.e., Euro). The MNE Group’s accounting 
consolidation system uses spot rates at the date of transaction  for income statement items and 
closing rates for balance sheet items.  
3. Due to a recent acquisition (New Cos), certain subsidiaries are not part of the consolidation 
system. For commercial reasons (e.g., system costs and the low materiality of these entities), it is decided not to incorporate these entities into the MNE Group’s accounting consolidation 
system. The entity level postings for these entities are therefore completed in the local 
accounting functional currency and then translated to the presentati on currency on an 
aggregated basis in the monthly consolidation process.  
4. For these Constituent Entities, the detailed data relevant for determining their GloBE Income 
or Loss is only available in local functional currency (i.e., USD). The MNE Group’s accounting 
system cannot determine the portion of the annual amount the income or expense that was 
posted in each month and thus cannot apply monthly translation rates to different portions of 
the income or expense. Therefore,  the MNE Group uses a yearly avera ge rate when converting 
from local currency to the presentation currency for these Constituent Entities. As the foreign 
currency translation logic  is compliant with the accounting standard applicable to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements , the foreign currency translation logic  should be respected 
for determining the GloBE Income or Loss for these Constituent Entities.  
  | 23 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Example 4 
 
1. The A Co  Group’s consolidated financial statements are prepared using IFRS and the Group’s 
presentation currency is Euro. The accounts for B Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in 
accordance with IFRS. The accounting functional currency of B Co and its subsidiaries is 
Japanese Yen.  The accounts for C Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with 
IFRS. The accounting f unctional currency of C Co and its subsidiaries is US Dollars.  None of 
the subsidiaries are located in a hyperinflationary economy.  
2. The A Co Group’s accounting consolidation system is set up to record the entity level data in 
the local functional currency and translate to the presentation- currency during the monthly 
consolidation process.  The consolidation of the local data has been done at an aggregate 
account balance level (i.e., not per posting or transaction) using monthly averages for Profit 
and Loss i tems and closing rate for Balance Sheet items. Consequently, the detailed data 
relevant for determining each Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or Loss is only available in 
local functional currency (i.e., JPY and USD).  As in Example 2, the MNE Group uses y early 
average rates to convert from local currency to presentation- currency for GloBE calculation 
purposes.  
3. Due to a recent acquisition, the A Co Group has become part of a larger MNE Group and the 
new UPE -entity for GloBE purposes is Acquisition Co. Acquisition Co Group uses IFRS and its 
presentation currency is the Euro. Acquisition Co Group’s  consolidation system is set up to 
contemporaneously translate and record all entity level postings in local functional currency to 
the presentation currency.  It has been decided to incorporate the A Co Group into Acquisition 
Co’s consolidation system, which is planned to take 3 years. During that period, Acquisition Co 
will continue to use the A Co Group’s foreign currency translation logic  in parallel to the logic 
used by the Acquisition Co Group. That is, Acquisition Co will maintain its current foreign currency translation logic for Sub- Cos, while it will maintain A Co Group’s (and its subsidiary) 
different foreign currency translation logic during the 3 -year peri od. These different logics will 
be applied even where the A Co Group and the Acquisition Co Group have subsidiaries located in the same jurisdiction. Upon incorporation of the A Co Group into Acquisition Co Group’s 
24 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  consolidation system, it will use the sam e foreign currency translation logic  (i.e., 
contemporaneous translation) as the Acquisition Co Group.  
4. Given t he foreign currency translation logic s used both before and after the system 
implementation are in accordance with the accounting standard applicable to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements  of the MNE Group, the foreign currency translation logic s should be 
respected for the purposes of determining each Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income or Loss.  
Example 5 
 
1. The MNE Group’ s consolidated financial statements are prepared using IFRS and the Group’s 
presentation currency is Euro. The accounts for B Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in 
accordance with IFRS. The accounting functional currency of B Co and its subsidiaries is 
Japanese Yen.  The accounts for C Co and its subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with 
IFRS. The accounting functional currency of C Co and its subsidiaries is Argentine P eso. The 
C Co Group is located in a hyperinflationary economy.  
2. The MNE Group’s consolidation system is set up to record the entity level data in the local functional currency and translate to the presentation currency of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements during the monthly consolidation process (i.e., it uses the second conversion 
paradigm).  The consolidation of the local data is completed at an aggregate account balance 
level (i.e., not per posting or transaction) using monthly averages for income stat ement items 
and closing rates for balance sheet items.  
3. As a result, more granular data required to calculate each Constituent Entity’s GloBE Income 
or Loss is only available in the local functional currency (i.e., JPY and ARS).  A requirement to 
use monthl y averages to convert these more granular adjustments would be un- administrable 
for the MNE Group, whose accounting consolidation processes are not designed to track the time and applicable foreign exchange rate for each individual posting performed at an 
unconsolidated entity level.  
For practical reasons, the MNE Group therefore uses yearly average rates when converting the relevant 
profit and loss GloBE data points from local currency to the presentation - currency. Whereas using a yearly 
average rate is an appropriate foreign currency translation logic  under the accounting standards and 
should be respected under the GloBE rules for the B Co Group, this is not appropriate for the C Co Group. 
For the C Co Group, the foreign currency translation logic  should follow a similar set of principles as those 
set out for hyperinflationary economies in the Group’s Financial Accounting Standards (in this case, IFRS).  
  | 25 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Introduction 
Importance of Tax credit treatment  for ETR purposes 
1. The treatment of tax credits under the GloBE Rules is important because they can have a 
significant impact on the Jurisdictional ETR calculation depending upon whether they are treated as GloBE 
Income or a reduction to Covered Taxes. Tax credits will reduce the ETR under  either treatment. However, 
if a tax credit is treated as GloBE Income, it will reduce the ETR by a smaller amount than if it is treated as a reduction in Covered Taxes.  
IF agreement on refundable tax credits  
2. Working Party 11 first began considering the treatment of government grants and tax credits in the 
spring of 2020. That consideration led to a lengthy discussion of government grants and tax credits in the Pillar Two Blueprint  that ultimately formed the foundation of the GloBE Rules on the treatment of refundable 
tax credits. When the GloBE Rules were agreed, the IF considered refundable tax credits broadly 
equivalent to government grants and therefore treated them as GloBE income. The treatment of refundable 
tax credits under the GloBE Rules is largely consistent with the financial accounting treatment of refundable 
tax credits. However, the Model Rules required that tax credits be refundable within four years in order to receive this favourable treatment. The GloBE  Rules depart from the financial accounting treatment of 
refundable tax credits where they do not meet the condition that they are refundable within four years, and 
provide specific rules for their treatment as  a reduction to Covered Taxes.  
3. The agreed treatment was  grounded in the accounting principles applicable to tax credits , such as 
IAS 20 (government grant accounting) and IAS 12 (income tax accounting). However , the GloBE Rules 
provide a specific treatment (GloBE Income) for tax credits that are refund able within four years (Qualified 
Refundable Tax Credits or QRTCs) and a specific treatment (reduction of Covered Taxes) for tax credits that are refundable after four years  (Non- Qualified Refundable Tax Credits or Non- QRTCs). The treatment 
of these tax credits under the GloBE Rules is mandatory, irrespective of how the  tax credits  are accounted 
for by the MNE Group.  
4. The Commentary sets out a broad definition of the meaning of “refundable” in the context of the 
treatment of QRTCs under the GloBE Rules:  
Refundable means that the amount of the credit that has not been used already to reduce Covered 
Taxes is either payable as cash or cash equivalent. For this purpose, cash equivalent includes checks, 
short -term government debt instruments, and anything else treated as a cash equivalent under the 
financial accounting standard used in the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the ability to 
use the credit to discharge liabilities other than a Covered Tax liability. If the credit is only available to 
reduce Covered Taxes, i.e. it cannot be refunded in cash or credited against another tax, it is not 
refundable for this purpose.  2 Guidance on Tax Credits  26 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Special treatment for QFTBs 
5. In February 2023, the Inclusive Framework released Administrative Guidance (February AG ) that 
addressed  the treatment of Qualified Flow -through Tax Benefits (QFTBs) that are derived through a 
Qualified Ownership Interest  (QOI) in a Tax Transparent Entity . In the structures at issue, the investor that 
holds the Q OI recovers  its investment through receiving tax  benefits  that flow through the Tax Transparent 
Entity.  The February AG  allows the investor in the Q OI to treat  these tax benefits derived through the Tax 
Transparent Entity as taxes paid to the extent of the investment. Tax benefits exceeding the QOI 
investment are treated as tax reductions. This essentially puts the investor in the QOI in the same position 
as if it instead used the amount invested in the QOI to pay its taxes .  
Additional guidance is needed 
6. Although the Model Rules and Commentary prescrib e specific treatment for refundable tax credits, 
they do not provide comprehensive rules for the treatment of all tax credits and some of the existing 
Commentary on the GloBE treatment of tax credits is unclear.  
Transferable tax credits  
7. At the time the Glo BE Rules were agreed, the IF gave no consideration to the treatment of 
transferable tax credits.  A transferable tax credit has similarities to a refundable tax credit from the 
perspective of both the originator of the credit and the government providing the credit. From the 
originator’s perspective, a transferable tax credit can either be used to pay  its income taxes or sold to 
someone else and the proceeds used to pay its income taxes or other expenses. A transferable tax credit 
is not as valuable to the originator as a refundable tax credit when the originator lacks sufficient tax liability 
to absor b the tax credit because the originator will have to sell the tax credit at a discount rather than 
getting a full refund from the government. However, it still has a cash value to the originator to the extent 
that the credit is readily tradeable in an acti ve market. From the government’s perspective, it will have to 
forego tax revenue equal to the face amount of transferable tax credits that trade in an active market in all 
cases because they will be used by the originator or a purchaser to reduce their tax  liability. In fact, some 
governmental accounting standards require governments that grant transferable tax credits to treat them 
as government expenditures for accounting and budgeting purposes.  
Unresolved issues related to QFTBs  
8. The February AG on Qualif ied Flow -through Tax Benefits ( QFTBs ) left several questions 
unresolved.  An issue in need of further guidance is the treatment of the developer  of the project that 
originates the tax credits. The February AG indicated that further consideration would be gi ven to the timing 
of the tax adjustments by the investor that holds a QOI. Under the February AG, the investor treats QFTBs 
as tax expense until the QOI investment is fully recovered and then as a tax reduction. For accounting 
purposes, however, investors in these structures often use the proportional amortization method to determine when and to what extent the income tax expense is adjusted. Under this method,  the investor’s 
profit  from the investment is spread over the investment period  
Timing of income f rom QRTC  
9. The originator of a QRTC has the right to a refund of the amount of the tax credit within four years. 
The Commentary to the GloBE Rules states that “the full amount of a QRTC will be treated as GloBE 
Income of the recipient Constituent Entity in t he year such entitlement accrues.”  The Constituent Entity 
may not actually receive the refund or use all of the tax credit in the year that it satisfies the tax credit 
requirements. IAS 20 does not provide specific timing rules for refundable tax credits t hat are accounted 
for as government grants leaving MNE Groups with leeway in how they are accounted for. Some MNE   | 27 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Groups may include refundable tax credits as income in full in the year the Constituent Entity becomes 
eligible for the tax credit or as income to the extent it is used or refunded each year. Alternatively, if the 
refundable tax credit arises in connection with an investment in an asset, the MNE Group may account for 
it as income over the productive life of the asset.  
Clarification of treatment of non -refundable tax credits  
10. The Pillar Two Blueprint sets out an analysis of the accounting treatment of non -refundable tax 
credits:  
235. … An ITC that is determined or limited by reference to an entity’s income tax liability or 
provided in the form of an income tax deduction is likely to be accounted for under IAS 12 (Income 
Taxes) and recorded in the financial accounts as a reduction in current tax expense...  
236. Therefore, it is expected that generally under IFRS and equivalent accounting standards any 
“refundable” ITCs would be treated as income, whereas any non- refundable ITCs would be treated 
as a reduction in a tax liability . 
11. Article 4.1.1 of the Model Rules could be interpreted as providing that the treatment of non-
refundable credits under the G loBE Rules follows their financial accounting treatment. However, t he GloBE 
Rules and Commentary do not provide clear and comprehensive guidance on the treatment of non-
refundable tax credits . Article 4.1.3(c) can be interpreted in a way that treats non- refundable credits as tax 
reductions. Article 4.1.3(c) provides that the reductions to Covered Taxes include:  
any amount of Covered Taxes refunded or credited, except for any Qualified Refundable Tax 
Credit, to a Constituent Entity that was not treated as an adjustment to current tax expense in the 
financial accounts . 
The reference to QRTCs in Article 4.1.3(c) could be read as suggesting that all other tax credits are in 
scope of the rule.  The Commentary, however, indicates that the provision is focused on refunds of Covered 
Taxes that were previously paid, with the reference to “credited” as a means of acknowledging that some 
tax refunds are credited against other liabilities of the taxpayer that is due the refund.  
12. The Commentary on the treatment  of QRTCs as GloBE Income also contains statements that may 
create uncertainty  in implementing and interpreting the rules . Paragraph 113 of the Commentary to Article 
3.2.4 provides:  
a tax credit that does not meet the conditions for being a Qualified Refundable Tax Credit, i.e. a Non- Qualified Refundable Tax Credit, but that was treated as income in the financial accounts, 
must be deducted in full from the measure of net income in the financial statements, and there must be a corresponding reduction of Adjusted Covered Taxes under Article 4.1.3(b).  
Without the phrase “i.e. a Non- Qualified Refundable Tax Credit”, this sentence would mean that any tax 
credit that is not a QRTC is treated as a tax reduction because all other credits would not meet the 
conditions for being a QRTC. That phrase, however, seems to limit the sentence to refundable tax credits 
that do not meet the conditions for being a QRTC.  
13. Finally,  paragraph 57.3 of the Commentary to Article 3.2.1(c), which was added by the February 
AG, states  that both Non- QRTCs and non- refundable tax credits are treated as  reductions to Adjusted 
Covered Taxes  under the GloBE Rules . 
14. Given the lack of clarity in the rules and commentary and the resulting uncertainty in the intended 
operation of the rules addressing the position of tax credits, this guidance seeks to stabilize and codify the 
treatment of tax credits based on their character in the hands of the Constit uent Entity based on bright -line 
rules and economic criteria that reflects the way they are accounted for under existing accounting standards.  28 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Reference to accounting treatment where guidance is incomplete or unclear  
15. The general principle embedded in Artic le 3.1 is that where GloBE Rules do not provide for specific 
provisions addressing the treatment of specific items or transactions, the starting point for applying the 
rules should be the relevant accounting standard used to determine the Financial Account ing Net Income 
or Loss  for GloBE purposes . The GloBE Rules and Commentary do not address the treatment of 
transferable tax credits and are not clear on the treatment of other tax credits. Accordingly, in the absence 
of specific rules dealing with transferable and non -refundable tax credits, the corresponding GloBE 
treatment needs to be considered in light of the MNE Group’s accounting treatment pursuant to Article 3.1.  
Income tax accounting –  IAS 12 and ASC 740  
16. IAS 12 and ASC 740 govern the accounting treatment of income tax expense under IFRS and US 
GAAP, respectively. Income tax credits are generally treated as reductions to income tax expense under IAS 12 and ASC 740 because they reduce the recipient’s income tax liability. However, neither IFRS nor 
US G AAP provides comprehensive, authoritative guidance on the accounting treatment of tax credits.  
17. Investment tax credits (ITCs) are often accounted for differently from other types of tax credits . 
Under ASC 740, ITCs that are related to specific assets can be accounted for either as a reduction to 
income tax expense in the year the qualifying asset  is placed in service or may be included in income 
ratably over the productive life of the qualifying asset .  
18. IFRS does not have specific guidance on ITCs. In fact, ITCs  are expressly excluded from the scope 
of IAS 12  and IAS 20. Accountants applying IFRS to ITCs , however,  generally analogize to the treatment 
of other tax credits under IAS 12 and IAS 20 and determine which accounting treatment is more appropriat e 
based on the features and requirements of the tax credit. An ITC that is determined or limited by reference 
to an entity’s income tax liability or provided in the form of an income tax deduction is likely to be accounted 
for under IAS 12 and recorded in the financial accounts as a reduction in current tax expense. Where IAS 
20 accounting is appropriate, an ITC may be accounted for as income ratably over the productive life of the qualifying asset.  
Government Grant Accounting – IAS 20  
19. IAS 20 governs the accounting treatment of government grants under IFRS. US GAAP does not 
have specific guidance on the treatment of government grants. However, in applying US GAAP, accounting professionals apply the principles of IAS 20.  
20. IAS 20 defines government grants as “assistance by government in the form of transfers of 
resources to an entity in return for past or future compliance with certain conditions relating to the operating 
activities of the entity”. Government grants often involve a direct payment or transfer of resources to an entity, but some are administered via the tax system for efficiency reasons . In those cases, the grant is 
credited against the entity’s tax liability and any amount exceeding the tax liability is refunded to the entity. A tax credit falls  into the IAS 20 framework where it is a transfer of resources and the transfer is in return 
for past or future compliance with certain conditions and activities.  
21. Under government grant accounting, the amount of the grant is included in the entity’s income. 
Where government grant accounting treatment is applicable to a tax credit, t his accounting treatment 
applies notwithstanding the fact that the government grant is realized in the form of a credit against the 
entity’s income tax liability. In effect, the accounting treats the entity as receiving a government grant and 
using it to pay the income tax liability.  
22. Accounting professionals uniformly consider refundable tax credits to be transfers of resources 
within the meaning of IAS 20 because the benefit is  not conditioned on or limited by the recipient’s tax 
liability. If the tax credit exceeds the tax liability, the government will provide the difference in cash or cash   | 29 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  equivalents. Accordingly, refundable tax credits are treated as income of the recipient  under IFRS and US 
GAAP.  
23. Beyond refundable tax credits, the determination of whether a tax credit is treated as an income 
tax reduction or as income is based on the terms and characteristics of the tax credit. In respect of non-
refundable tax credits, the main features that are typically considered by accounting professionals as 
indicators that a tax credit can be treated as income are:  
a. The ability to offset the tax credit against other taxes (e.g., VAT, stamp duty, payroll 
tax); and  
b. The ability to transfer the tax credit to another party in an active market.   
24. Conversely, the circumstance that a tax credit can only be offset against income taxes and cannot 
be directly settled in cash when there is insufficient taxable profit is an indicator that the tax cr edit should 
be treated as an income tax reduction.  
Application of the accounting standards to originators of transferable tax credits  
25. Transferable tax credits have existed for some time. However, the size and scale of the 
transferable credits arising under  the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in the US created a need for more 
specific accounting guidance on transferable tax credits.4 The IRA transferable tax credits can be offset 
against income tax of the originator or  transferred to another party  and used to offset the income tax liability 
of the purchaser. However, an IRA transferable tax credit  can be transferred only once and thus a 
purchaser cannot re- transfer it . 
26.  In recent consultations on the proper accounting treatment of IRA transferable tax credits  under 
US GAAP, the Financial Accounting Standards Body (FASB) concluded that the most appropriate 
accounting treatment is income tax reduction. However, FASB also agreed that other treatments of the 
IRA transferable tax credits by the original recipient (the originator) were permissible. Specifically, it 
concluded that an originator could apply income treatment for these transferable tax credits or could apply an intent -based treatment, wher e the ones the originator intends to sell are treated as income and the ones 
the originator intends to use are treated as income tax reductions.  
Application of the accounting standards to purchasers of transferable tax credits  
27. The FASB concluded that a pur chaser of an IRA transferable tax credit must treat the purchase 
price of the credit as income tax expense.  The difference between the purchase price and face value of 
the tax credit (the discount) reduces the income tax expense. The purchase price represents the entity’s 
cost to satisfy its tax liability; thus, it cannot be treated as a reduction of income tax expense. This 
conclusion is consistent with the fact that  the IRA transferable tax credits cannot be re- sold by the person 
that purchases them from the originator  and can only be used to reduce a tax liability of the purchaser.  
28. The accounting practice developed in Italy for IFRS a
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: dopters in relation to the purchase of certain 
non-refundable tax credits is to treat them as financial assets under IFRS  9 (Financial Instruments). The 
treatment as financial asset pursuant to I FRS 9 is indicated as the most appropriate accounting treatment 
in an official document released by the Italian regulatory authorities .5  The tax credits that are the subject 
of the I FRS guidance are different than transferable IRA tax credits because they can be offset against 
income taxes and other taxes (e.g., VAT, stamp duty, payroll cost) and can be transferred indefinitely in 
the market. Pursuant to the guidance, the purchaser ac crues interest income equal to the discount as the 
 
4 The IRA also established certain refundable credits. Those credits are accounted for as income under US GAAP.  
5 Bank of Italy  (bank regulatory authority) , Consob (Financial markets regulatory authority)  and IVASS (insurance 
supervisory authority) . 30 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  credit matures. If the credit is used to satisfy a tax liability, the purchaser treats the face value of the credit 
as tax expense. Alternatively, if the purchaser re- sells the tax credit, it determines gain or loss based on 
the carrying value of the credit (generally, the original purchase price plus accrued income). This treatment 
is essentially the same as income treatment for a refundable tax credit but relies on IFR S 9 instead of IAS  
20. 
Summary  
29. Neither IFRS nor US GAAP provides comprehensive, authoritative guidance on the accounting 
treatment of tax credits.  Instead, the applicable accounting framework  – income treatment or tax expense 
reduction treatment  – is determined based on the specific feat ures of the credits and any locally -developed 
accounting practice. Locally -developed accounting practices may not always reach the same conclusions 
about  the substantive features of a tax credit in relation  to determining  the applicable accounting treatment. 
In addition, the accounting guidance that exists is often not mandatory such that different companies may 
adopt different accounting policies for the same tax credits. Consequently, it is possible that the accounting 
practice in different jurisdictions for certain types of tax credits might diverge so that tax credits having 
substantially equivalent features but established in different jurisdictions receive  different accounting 
treatment.   
30. Because the treatment of tax credits can have a si gnificant effect on the ETR, the Inclusive 
Framework has determined that a uniform and mandatory treatment of tax credits is necessary to ensure 
that different financial accounting rules do not advantage or disadvantage some MNE Groups.  
Guidance  
31. The GloBE Rules contain explicit, mandatory treatment applicable to the Constituent Entity 
originating Qualified Refundable Tax Credits (QRTCs) and Non- Qualified Refundable Tax Credits (Non-
QRTCs). This Administrative Guidance establishes the mandatory GloBE treatment applicable to the  
Constituent Entity originating Marketable Transferable Tax Credits (MTTCs), Non- Marketable Transferable 
Tax Credits (Non- MTTCs), and Other Tax Credits (OTCs) and the mandatory GloBE treatment applicable 
to the Constituent Entity purchasing QRTCs, MTTCs, Non- QRTCs and Non -MTTCs.    | 31 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  32. The table below summarizes the GloBE treatment associated with each of the above categories. 
Income treatment, i.e. inclusion of the tax credit in the computation of GloBE Income or Loss, applies to 
both QRTCs and MTTCs. Tax reduction treatment , i.e., reduction to Covered Taxes,  applies to non-
QRTCs, non- MTTCs, and all OTCs.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33. For the purposes of determining the GloBE category of a tax credit, the refundability criteria should 
be tested primarily, and the transferability should be tested subordinately. Accordingly, if a tax credit meets 
the refundability criteria and qualifies as a QRTC, it will be defined as a QRTC regardless of whether it 
could be also transferable at a marketable price. If the tax c redit rather does not meet the refundability 
criteria (i.e., it is either a non -refundable or a non- QRTC), then the transferability criteria shall be tested in 
order to determine whether the tax credit could be considered a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit.  
Marketable Transferable Tax Credits  
34. Marketable Transferrable Tax Credits have similarities to Qualified Refundable Tax Credits from 
the perspective of both the Entity originating the credit and the government providing the credit. In order to provide similar treatment to these tax credits, Marketable Transferable Tax Credits shall be treated as 
income and not as a tax reduction. The revisions to the Commentary set out below are intended to produce 
this result for both the originator and the purchaser.  
35. The following guidance will be inserted before the heading for Qualified Refundable Tax Credits  
of the Commentary to Article 3.2.4:  
109.1  The Commentary to Article 3.2.4 sets out the Inclusive Framework’s agreement on the 
treatment of Qualified Refundable Tax Credits and Marketable Transferable Tax Credits under the 
GloBE Rules. The treatment provided in Article 3.2.4 applies only to tax credits that are Qualified 
Refundable Tax Credits or  Marketable Transferable Tax Credits . Where a tax credit regime 
provi des for tax credits that are partially refundable or transferable (i.e. tradeable) , such that only 
a fixed percentage or portion of the credit is refundable or transferable, the credit shall be 
bifurcated and the part that is refundable or transferable shall be tested to determine whether it is 
a Qualified Refundable Tax Credit  or Marketable Transferable Tax Credit . The Commentary under 
32 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Article 4.1.3 (b) or (c ) applies to any  tax credit or any part of a tax credit that does not meet the 
definition of a Qualified Refundable Tax Credit  or Marketable Transferable Tax Credit . 
36. The text  in bold will be added to paragraph 111 of the Commentary to Article 3.2.4.  
111. The face value of a Qualified Refundable Tax Credit will be treated as GloBE Income of 
the recipient Constituent Entity in the year such entitlement accrues. However, if the Qualified  
Refundable Tax Credit is related to the acquisition or construction of assets and the  
Constituent Entity that engages in the activities that generate the credit (the Originator) has 
an accounting policy of reducing the carrying value of its assets in respect of such tax 
credits, or recognising the credit as deferred income, such that the income from the tax 
credit is recognized over the productive life of the asset, the O riginator may follow this 
same accounting policy for  Qualified Refundable Tax Credits to determine its  GloBE 
Income or Loss without changing the character of the credit. This reflects that these types of 
refundable tax credits share features of, and should be treated in the same way as, government 
grants that form part of income, given that  they are in effect government support for a certain type 
of activity that can ultimately be received in cash or cash equivalent . See also the Commentary on 
the definition of Qualified Refundable Tax Credit.  The Inclusive Framework will consider 
providing further guidance to address transitional issues and deferred tax implications in 
respect of QRTCs  and other tax credits, including for those QRTCs  and other tax credits 
that are taxable income.  
37. The following text will be added after paragraph 112 of the Commentary to Article 3.2.4 : 
Marketable Transferable Tax Credits  
112.1  Marketable Transferable Tax Credit means a tax credit that can be used by the holder of 
the credit to reduce its liability for a Covered Tax in the jurisdiction that issued the tax credit and 
that meets the legal transferability standard and the marketability standard in the hands of holder.  
(a) Legal transferability standard. The legal transferability standard is met for the 
Originator of a tax credit if the tax credit regime is designed in a way that the Originator 
can transfer the credit to an unrelated party in the Fiscal Year in which it satisfies the 
eligibility criteria for the credit (Origination Year) or within 15 months of the end of the 
Origination Year. The legal transferabil ity standard is met for a purchaser of a tax credit if 
the tax credit regime is designed in a way that the purchaser can transfer the credit to an unrelated party in the Fiscal Year in which it purchased the tax credit . If under the legal 
framework that applies to the credit, a purchaser of the tax credit cannot legally transfer 
the tax credit to an unrelated party or is subject to more stringent legal restrictions on transfer of the credit than the Originator, the tax credit  does not meet the legal 
transferability standard in the hands of the purchaser.  
(b) Mar
 ketability standard. The marketability standard is met for the Originator of a 
tax credit if it is transferred to an unrelated party within 15 months of the end of the 
Origination Year (or, if not transferred or  transferred between related parties, similar tax 
credits trade between  unrelated parties within 15 months of the end of the Origination 
Year ) at a price that equals or exceeds the Marketable Price Floor. The marketability 
standard is met for  a purchaser if that purchaser acquired the credit from an unrelated 
party at a price that equals or exceeds the Marketable Price Floor.  Marketable Price Floor 
means 80% of the net present value (NPV) of the tax credit, where the NPV is determined 
based on the yield to maturity on a debt instrument issued by the government that issued 
the tax credit with equal or similar maturity (and up to 5- year maturity) issued in the same 
Fiscal Year  as the tax credit is transferred (or if not transferred, the Originati on Year) . For 
this purpose, the tax credit is the face value of the credit or the remaining creditable   | 33 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  amount in relation to the tax credit.  For this purpose, the cash flow projection to be factored 
in the NPV calculation shall be based on the maximum amount that can be used each 
year under the legal design of the credit . An Originator and purchaser are considered 
related parties if one owns, directly or indirectly, at least 50%  of the beneficial interest in 
the other (or, in the case of a company, at least  50% of the aggregate vote and value of 
the company’s shares) or another person owns, directly or indirectly, at least 50 % of the 
beneficial interest (or, in the case of a company, at least 50%  of the aggregate vote and 
value of the company’s shares) in each of the Originator and purchaser.  In any case, an 
Originator and purchaser are considered related parties if, based on all the relevant facts 
and circumstances, one has control of the other or both are under the control of the same 
person or persons.  
112.2  The marketability standard can be illustrated with the following example. Assume that 
Constituent Entity satisfies the eligibility criteria for a tax credit with face value equal to EUR 100 
in Year 1 and that, according to the legal design of the tax c redit, the C onstituent Entity can either  
utilize it over the subsequent 5- year period in equal installments of EUR 20 per year or transfer it 
beginning in Year 1. T he same government granting the tax credit issued in Year 1 five-year debt 
instruments with a yield to  maturity equal to 4% . In that case, the NPV of the tax credit is equal to 
EUR 89.04, and the relevant Marketable Price Floor is equal to EUR 71.23.  The marketability 
standard is met where the tax credit is transferred to an unrelated party at a price equal to or higher 
than EUR 71.23 or, if retained or transferred to related parties only, where similar tax credits trade 
between unrelated parties at a price equal to or higher than EUR 71.23.  
112.3  It is recognized that tax credits generally are not traded on public exchanges with daily 
quoted prices but instead are privately negotiated in over -the-counter transactions. MNE Groups 
can establish the price at which tax credits trade for purposes of paragraph 112.5 based on evidence of similar transact ions and in accordance with the applicable fair value accounting 
standards used in their Consolidated Financial Statements, for example IFRS 13 or ASC 820.  
112.4 Generally, the Originator  of a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit shall treat the face value  
of the tax credit as GloBE Income in the Origination Year . However, if the Marketable Transferable 
Tax Credit  is related to the acquisition or construction of assets and the Originator has  an 
accounting policy of reducing the carrying value of its assets in respect of such tax credits , or 
recognising the credit as deferred income, such that the income from the tax credit is recognized 
over the productive life of the asset , the Originator sh all follow this same accounting policy for 
GloBE purposes.  If all or part of a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit expires without use, the 
Originator treats the face value attributable to the expired portion of the credit as a loss (or increase to the carr ying value of the asset) in the computation of GloBE Income or Loss in the Fiscal Year 
of the expiration.  
112.5  An Originator that transfers a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit within 15 months of the 
end of the Origination Year shall include the transfer  price (in lieu of the face value of the credit) in 
its GloBE Income in the Origination Year. If the Originator transfers a Marketable Transferable Tax 
Credit after this period, any difference between the face value of the tax credit transferred that was 
included in GloBE Income or Loss for the Origination Year and the transfer price shall be treated 
as a loss in computing the Originator’s GloBE Income or Loss in the Fiscal Year of the transfer. 
Where the Originator includes the tax credit as income ratably  over the productive life of the asset, 
for both accounting and GloBE purposes, the difference between the transfer price and the face 
value of the tax credit shall be included in the GloBE Income or Loss ratably over the remaining 
productive life of the asset. For example, a Constituent Entity originates a tax credit with EUR 100 
face value and includes it as income over a period of 5 years because it is related to an asset with 5-year productive life (either via contra- asset  accounting or via deferred inc ome accounting). In 
year 2, this tax credit is transferred at a price of 90. Assuming that the face value of the credit at 34 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  the date of transfer is still 100, the seller realizes a loss of 10 which is allocated ratably over the 
remaining four years of the productive life of the asset to match the income attributable to the 
reduction in the carrying value of the asset . 
112.6 A purchaser of a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit that uses the tax credit to satisfy its 
liability for a Covered Tax  includes the difference between the purchase price and the face value 
of the tax credit in its GloBE Income when and in proportion to the amount of the tax credit used by the purchaser to satisfy its liability for a Covered Tax. For example, if a purchaser acquires a 
tax credit with a face value of 100 for 90 and uses 70 of the credit in Year 1, it includes 7 (= 70/100 
x (100- 90)) in its GloBE Income in Year 1. A purchaser of a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit 
that sells the credit must include the gain or loss on the sale in its GloBE Income or Loss in the Fiscal Year of the sale. The gain or loss on sale is equal to the sale price minus the total of the purchase price and the gain recognized from use of the credit. If all or part of a Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credit expires without use, the purchaser treats the loss attributable to the 
expired portion of the credit as a loss in the computation of GloBE Income or  Loss in the Fiscal 
Year of the expiration. The loss attributable to the expiration is equal to the excess of the purchase 
price and the gain recognized on use of the credit over the amount of the credit used. Thus, in the 
example, the loss would be 27 (= (90 + 7) – 70). This treatment of a purchased Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credit applies to a purchased tax credit that also qualifies as a Qualified 
Refundable Tax Credit.  
38. The existing Commentary to Article 3.2.4, paragraph 114, is removed because the relevant content 
is reported in paragraph 109.1. The following new text will be included in the Commentary as paragraph 114: 
114. The conditions for a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit draw on the treatment in financial 
accounting standards (both for government grants and for income taxes), and are designed to 
identify tax credits that are, as a matter of substance and not merely form, transferable in a market. 
In order to be treated as a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit under the GloBE Rules, there must be a market such that the legal right to transfer the credit has immediate practical and economic 
significance  for those taxpayers that will be entitled to the credit. If there is no actual  market for the 
transferable tax credits, then the transferability element will be of no practical significance to 
taxpayers and the GloBE Rules will not treat the tax credit as  a Marketable Transferable Tax 
Credit.  
114.1  The provisions of Article 8.3 on Administrative Guidance will apply to ensure consistency 
of outcomes in respect of the application of the marketability standard. If those jurisdictions that 
adopt the common approach identify risks associated with the treatment of Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credits that lead to unintended outcomes, the relevant jurisdictions could be 
asked to consider developing further conditions for a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit or, if 
necessary, explore alternative rules for the treatment of Marketable Transferable Tax Credits. This analysis would be based on empirical and historical data with respect to the tax credit regime and 
market as a whole, and not on a taxpayer -specific basis.  
39. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, paragraph 5 
of the Commentary to Art. 4.1.2(d):  
d. Paragraph (d) adds any amount of refund or equivalent credit in respect of a Qualified Refundable Tax Credit or Marketable Transferable Tax Credit  that has been recorded as a 
reduction to current tax expense. A Qualified Refundable Tax Credit is defined in Article 10.1 as a 
refundable tax credit designed in a way such t hat it becomes is refundable within 4 years from 
when a Constituent Entity satisfies the conditions for receiving the credit under domestic law of a jurisdiction in which the Constituent Entity is located. A Marketable Transferable Tax Credit is 
defined  in  paragraph 112.1 of the Commentary to Article 3.2.4. Qualified Refundable Tax   | 35 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Credits and Marketable Transferable Tax Credits are treated as income items in the 
computation of GloBE Income or Loss. Accordingly, when such credit or refund is granted, any 
amount that has been recorded as a reduction to current tax expense in the Constituent Entity’s 
financial accounts is reversed- out in the same Fiscal Year the current tax expense is recorded in 
order to prevent the ETR for the jurisdiction being understated by such a reduction in Covered 
Taxes. The GloBE Rules provide for a corresponding adjustment to the Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss that treats the amount of Qualified Refundable Tax Credit and Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credit as income in the year the entitlement to such credit accrues (see the 
Commentary to Article 3.2.4).  
Non-Marketable Transferable Tax Cr edits and Other Tax Credits  
40. A Non-Marketable Transferable Tax Credit is a tax credit that, if held by the Originator, is 
transferable but is not a Marketable Transferable Tax, and if held by a purchaser, is not a Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credit. Because their  use is practically limited by the holder’s tax liability, Non- Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credits should be treated as a tax reduction for GloBE purposes.  
41. Other Tax Credits are non- refundable and non- transferable tax credits that can only be used to 
offset a Covered Tax liability of the Originator. Because their use is limited by the Originator’s Covered Tax 
liability, they should be treated as a tax reduction for GloBE purposes.  
42. The revisions to the Commentary set out below are intended to clarify that Non- Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credits and Other Tax Credits are treated as reductions to Covered Taxes under the 
GloBE rules, irrespective of how they are treated for financial accounting purposes. The revisions also 
provide guidance on the GloBE treatme nt of proceeds received from the transfer of a Non- Marketable 
Transferable Tax Credit and the timing and amount of the tax reduction when a purchaser uses a Non-
Marketable Transferable Tax Credit to offset its tax liability.  
43. The Commentary to Article 3.2.4 , paragraph 113, is revised to read as follows:  
113. A tax credit that does not meet the conditions for being a Qualified Refundable Tax Credit 
or a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit, but that was treated as income in the financial accounts, 
must be subtr acted in full from the computation of GloBE Income or Loss .  
44. The Commentary to Article 4.1.3(c) , paragraphs 14 and 15 are revised to read as follows:  
14. In general, paragraph (c) reduces Covered Taxes by the amount of tax credits (other than 
Qualified Ref undable Tax Credits  and Marketable Transferable Tax Credits) that reduce the 
Constituent Entity’s liability for Covered Taxes as well as any amount of previously -claimed 
Covered Taxes that are refunded (including a refund that is applied as a credit agains t another 
Covered Tax  liability) to a Constituent Entity to the extent that the tax credit or refund  has not 
already been treated as an adjustment to current tax expense in the financial accounts.  
Tax credits  
14.1 Except as provided in paragraphs 14.2 and 14.3, a tax credit  (other than a Qualified 
Refundable Tax Credit  and a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit ) shall be treated as a reduction 
to Covered Taxes  to the extent it is  used to reduce a Constituent Entity’s liability for a Covered 
Tax for a taxable period that ends during the Fiscal Year.  
14.2 A Non -Marketable Transferable Tax Credit is a tax credit that:  
(a) if held by the Originator, is transferable but is not a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit; 
and 
(b) if held by a purchaser, is not a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit .  36 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  14.3 In the case of a Non- Marketable Transferable Tax Credit:  
(a) the Originator shall reduce its Covered Taxes for a Fiscal Year to the extent the tax 
credit is used to satisfy its liability for a Covered Tax for a taxable period that ends during 
such Fiscal Year and to the extent of any amount received in exchange for the credit 
during such Fiscal Year;  
(b) a purchaser shall reduce its Covered Taxes for a Fiscal Year by any excess of the face value of the tax credit over its purchase price in proportion to the amount of the credit used 
to satisfy its liability for a Covered Tax for a taxable period that ends during such Fiscal 
Year; and  
(c) a purchaser shall reduce its Covered Taxes  by the amount of any gain on the transfer 
as a reduction to Covered Taxes  in the event that it transfers the tax credit during the 
Fiscal Year  and include any loss on the transfer in the computation of its GloBE Income 
or Loss for such Fiscal Year.   
14.4  For the purposes of determining the GloBE category of a tax credit, the refundability 
criteria should be tested primarily, and the transferability should be tested  subordinately. 
Accordingly, if a tax credit meets the refundability criteria and qualifies  as a QRTC, it will be defined 
as a QRTC regardless of whether it could be also transferable at a marketable price. If the tax 
credit rather does not meet the refundability criteria (i.e., it is either a non- refundable or a non-
QRTC), then the transferabil ity criteria shall be tested in order to determine whether the tax credit 
could be considered a Marketable Transferable Tax Credit.  
Refunds (and credits) of previously claimed Covered Taxes  
14.5 Paragraph (c) also ensures that to the extent a Constituent Entity receives a refund of 
previously claimed Covered Taxes, including a refund that is applied as a credit (i.e. credited) 
against another Covered Tax liability, the amount of the refund (or credit) is treated as a reduction 
to Adjusted Covered Taxes. This is the case even where the Constituent Entity’s accounting 
principles or policy did not treat that amount as an adjustment to the current tax expense for a 
Covered Tax.  
14.6 Under paragraph (c), the Adjusted Covered Taxes are reduced for the Fiscal Year in which 
the tax refund (or credit) is accrued in the financial accounts. In the case of a refund or credit of 
previously claimed Covered Taxes, the application of paragraph (c) to refunds (or credits) will be 
limited, because Article 4.6.1 governs adjus tments to the Adjusted Covered Taxes in the case of 
a tax refund and requires an adjustment to the Adjusted Covered Taxes for a previous Fiscal Year 
where the refund is EUR 1 million or more. Paragraph (c) will apply only when such a refund (or 
credit) is not an adjustment to a Constituent Entity’ s liability for Covered Taxes for a previous Fiscal 
Year  under Article 4.6.1.  
15. Paragraph (c) would also apply, for example, if a jurisdiction provided a refund (or credit ) 
for previously claimed Covered T axes on  corporate equity where the tax and the corresponding 
refund (or credit ) was taken into account as an ordinary expense or income for financial reporting 
purposes in the year of the refund (or credit ). This paragraph also applies to refunds (and credits ) 
in respect of Covered Taxes when the refund ( or credit ) is made to a different Constituent Entity 
than the entity that originally incurred the tax expense. Paragraph (c) may apply to refunds (and 
credits ) in respect of Covered Taxes paid or accrued in a curr ent or previous Fiscal Year (subject 
to the overriding operation of Article 4.6).    | 37 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  QFTB – timing rule under proportional amortization accounting  
45. Section 2.9 of the February AG sets out the treatment of Qualified Flow Through Tax Benefits 
(QFTB) by the investor in a Qualified Ownership Interest (QOI). As per paragraph 57.7 of the Commentary 
to Article 3.2.1(c), QFTBs are first treated as a reduction to the QOI investment until it is reduced to zero, 
and then as a reduction to the investor’s Adjusted Covered Taxes.  
46. This guidance provides an alternative timing rule to the one indicated under paragraph 57.7. As 
an administrative simplification, an MNE Group that uses the proportional amortization method of 
accounting for a QOI shall apply the same methodology for purposes of determining whether and to what 
extent benefits flowing through a QOI are treated as a reduction to the investment or a reduction to 
Adjusted Covered Taxes. An MNE Group that does not use the proportional amortization method of 
accounting for a QOI may elect to apply this methodology for GloBE purposes.  
47. Under the proportional amortization method as applied for accounting purposes, the investor 
adjusts its tax expense by the net benefit that flows through the QOI each year. The net benefit is 
determined based on the excess of the tax benefits that flow through during the year over the proportional 
amount of the investment. The proportional amount of the investment is determined based on the total 
investment multiplied by the ratio of the tax  benefits that flow through the QOI during the year to the total 
tax benefits expected to flow through the QOI over the term of the investment.  
48. Under the proportional amortization method as applied under the GloBE Rules, the QFTBs that 
flow through the QOI  shall be treated as a reduction to the investment in proportion to the total QFTBs that 
are expected to flow through the QOI over the term of the investment (i.e. until the investment is completely 
liquidated under the agreement or until the flip- point is  reached). The amount of QFTBs or income that 
flows through the partnership in excess of the proportional reduction to the investment shall be treated as 
a reduction to the Adjusted Covered Taxes.  
49. Paragraphs 57.7.1 to 57.7. 3 are added after paragraph 57.7 to read as follows:  
57.7.1  However, a n investor in  a Qualified Ownership Interest that uses the proportional 
amortization method of accounting for the interest for financial accounting purposes must apply the proportional amortization method of determining the amount of the investment that is recovered 
each year. An investor in  a Qualified Ownership Interest that does not use the proportional 
amortization method of accounting for the interest for financial accounting purposes may irrevocably elect to use this methodology for determining the amount of the investment that is 
recovered each year, in line with paragraph 57.7.2. The election must be made by the Filing 
Constituent Entity for a Qualified Ownership Interest in the first Fiscal Year in which the investor 
acquires the interest or is subject to the GloBE Rules.  
57.7.2. Under the proportional amortization method as applied under the GloBE Rules, any of the 
items described in paragraphs 57.6(a) through (d) that flow through or are received in respect of 
the Qualified Ownership Interest shall be treated as a reduction to the investment in proportion to 
the Expected Tax Benefits Ratio. The Expected Tax Benefits Ratio is the ratio of the items 
described in paragraphs 57.6(a) and (b) that flowed through or are received in the Fiscal Year to 
the total of such items that are expected to flow through or be received in respect of  the Qualified 
Ownership Interest over the term of the investment. The amount of the items described in 
paragraphs 57.6(a) through (d) that flow through or are received in respect of the Qualified 
Ownership Interest in excess of the reduction to the investment shall not be included as a positive 
amount  in the investor ’s Adjusted Covered Taxes.  38 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  57.7.3  The proportional amortization method can be illustrated with the following example. 
Assume that the investor is subject to tax at a 20% rate and expects to receive 100 of tax benefits 
over a five- year period from
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf:  the investment and invests 90 in a Qualified Ownership Interest. 
Assume further that the investor’s current income tax expense with respect to the investment for 
financial accounting purposes each year is determined by netting the proportional amortization of 
the investment against the amount of the tax benefit from the investment. Assum e also that the 
Expected Tax Benefit and the actual tax benefits are equal and the proportional amortization of the investment determined for financial accounting purposes is equal to the proportional 
amortization amount determined under paragraph 57.7.2. The chart below shows the proportional 
amortization computations for each year based on the amount of tax benefits that flow through the 
Qualified Ownership Interest each year.  
In determining the investor’s Adjusted Covered Tax expense each year, no adjust ment is 
necessary to the investor’s current tax expense for financial accounting purposes because it used 
the same proportional amortization amount in determining current tax expense as the amount 
allowed under paragraph 57.7.2.  
Qualified Ownership Interes ts of investors that apply  IFRS  
50. The financial accounting treatment of interests in Flow -through Entities with Qualified Ownership 
Interests (tax equity partnerships) by the developer and the investor varies depending upon the financial 
accounting standard used by the MNE Group. US GAAP generally treats both the developer and investor 
as owning an equity interest in a partnership. However, IFRS generally treats the developer as owning 
100% of the tax equity partnership and the investor’s interest as a loan f rom the investor to the partnership. 
IFRS treats the loan as being cancelled as the tax benefits flow through and the investor’s interest in the 
tax equity partnership declines. The investor is treated as making a loan to the entity, rather than holding 
an ownership interest. The tax benefits that flow through to the investor are treated as payments of principal 
and interest on the loan.   
51. The definition of Qualified Ownership Interest in the February AG required that the investor’s 
interest was an Ownershi p Interest under the GloBE Rules. The definition of an Ownership Interest in turn 
requires that the interest be treated as an equity interest under the financial accounting standard used by 
the investor in the Consolidated Financial Statements. This defini tion of Qualified Ownership Interest would 
mean that an investor that uses US GAAP could apply the guidance but an investor that uses IFRS would not be able to apply the guidance.  In order to ensure the same treatment applies to the investor with a  
Qualified Ownership Interest irrespective of its accounting treatment  of the interest , the text in bold will be 
inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from,  paragraph 57.8:  
57.8 A Qualified Ownership Interest is : 
(a) an investment in a Tax Transparent Entity: 
  | 39 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  (i) that is treated as an equity interest  for local tax purposes ; 
(ii) would be treated as an equity interest under an Authorised Financial 
Accounting Standard in the jurisdiction in which the Tax Transparent Entity 
operates ; and  
where the assets, liabilities, income, expenses, and cash flows of the Tax 
Transparent Entity are not consolidated on a line- by-line basis in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the MNE Group; and 
(b) the total return with respect to that investment  (including distributions and benefits of 
tax losses and Qualified Refundable Tax Credits derived through the Tax Transparent 
Entity, but excluding tax credits other than Qualified Refundable Tax Credits) is expected 
to be less than the total amount invested by the investor in  the investment  such that a 
portion of the investment will be returned in the form of tax credits other than Qualified 
Refundable Tax Credits  (regardless of whether such tax credits are expected to be 
transferred or used t o reduce the investor’s Covered Tax liability) .  
The determination of the expected total return is made at the time the investment is entered into 
and is based on facts and circumstances, including the terms of the investment. An interest will 
not be considered a Qualified Ownership Interest unless the i nvestor has a bona fide 
economic interest in the Flow -Through Entity and is not protected from loss of its 
investment.  Also, an interest will not be considered a Qualified Ownership Interest where a 
jurisdiction only permits the benefits of tax credits to be transferred through such interests when the developer or investor is subject to the GloBE  Rules.  
52. To ensure consistency of outcomes between the different types of tax credits and tax credits 
accessed through Qualified Ownership Interests, the following paragraph will be added after 
paragraph 57.8:  
57.9 The provisions of Article 8.3 on Administrative Guidance will apply to ensure consistency 
of outcomes in respect of the application of the rules related to Flow -through Entities with Qualified 
Ownership Int erests . If those jurisdictions that adopt the common approach identify risks 
associated with the treatment of interests in Flow -through Entities as Qualified Ownership Interests  
that lead to unintended outcomes, the relevant jurisdictions could be asked to consider developing 
further conditions for the Flow -through Entities or Qualified Ownership Interests or, if necessary, 
explore alternative rules for the treatment of such interests. In this regard, the Inclusive Framework 
will monitor the features and av ailability of Flow -through Entities in jurisdictions for projects that 
produce tax credits. This analysis would be based on empirical  and historical data with respect to 
the tax credit regime as a whole, and not on a taxpayer specific basis  
 40 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Interjurisdictional Assets and Employees   
Introduction  
1. This section provides guidance on determining the Substance- based Income Exclusion referable 
to Eligible Employees and Eligible Tangible Assets which are used outside the jurisdiction of the 
Constituent Entity which employs the employee or owns the asset.  
2. The Substance- based Income Exclusion for each jurisdiction is the sum of the payroll carve- out 
and tangible  asset carve -out for each Constituent Entity (except Constituent Entities that are Investment 
Entities) in that jurisdiction (Article 5.3.2).  
3. Article 5.3.3 states:  
The payroll carve- out for a Constituent Entity located in a jurisdiction is equal to 5% of its Eligible 
Payroll Costs of Eligible Employees that perform activities for the MNE Group in such jurisdiction, 
except Eligible Payroll costs that are…  
4. Similarly, Article 5.3.4 states:  
The tangible asset carve- out for a Constituent Entity located in a jurisdiction is equal to 5% of the 
carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets located in such jurisdiction.  
5. Paragraphs 33 and 38 of the Commentary to Article 5.3 respectively recognised that there may be 
cases where employees may perform work outside the employer’s jurisdiction and that tangible assets 
may be located outside the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity that owns or leases that asset. In both cases, the Commentary stated that consideration would be given to providing further guidance on 
addressing these cases.  
6. Paragraph 25 of the Commentary to Article 5 also provides a brief description of the policy rationale 
behind the Substance- based Income Exclusion. It states:  
The policy rationale behind a formulaic, substance- based carve- out, based on payroll and tangible 
assets is to exclude a fixed return for substantive activities within a jurisdiction from the application 
of the GloBE Rules. The use of Payroll and Tangible Assets as indicators of substantive activities 
is justified because these factors are generally expected to be less mobile and less likely to lead 
to tax -induced distortions. Conceptually, excluding a fixed return from substantive activities 
focuses GloBE on “excess income”, such as intangible- related income, which is most susceptible 
to BEPS risks.  
7. The term Eligible Employees is defined in Article 10.1 to mean:  
…employees, including part -time employees, of a Constituent Entity that is a member of the MNE 
Group and independent contractors participating in the ordinary operating activities of the MNE 
Group under the direction and control of the MNE Group.  3 Substance -based Income Exclusion    | 41 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  8. The term Eligible Tangible Assets is defined in Article 5.3.4 (subject to further clarifications) to 
mean:  
a. property, plant, and equipment located in that jurisdiction;  
b. natural resources located in that jurisdiction;  
c. a lessee’s right of use of tangible assets located in that jurisdiction; and  
d. a licence or similar arrangement from the government for the use of immovable 
property or exploitation of natural resources that entails significant investment in tangible assets.  
Issues to be considered 
9. Administrative Guidance is required with respect to the application of Article 5.3.3 and Article 5.3.4 
to Eligible Employees and Eligible Tangible Assets which are located (at least some of the time) outside the juris diction of the Constituent Entity employer or owner during the relevant period.  
Circumstances  
10. There are a variety of circumstances where an Eligible Employee would perform work activities 
outside the jurisdiction of their Constituent Entity employer, inclu ding where an employee:  
a. works remotely part -time (or full -time) from a jurisdiction other than that of the 
Constituent Entity employer –  for example, an employee could ‘work from 
home’ two days per week in a different jurisdiction to their employer;  
b. is re quired to work outside of the jurisdiction of their Constituent Entity 
employer for business purposes –  for example, seeing customers or suppliers 
in other jurisdictions, or visiting facilities in a different jurisdiction of another 
Constituent Entity in t he same MNE Group;  
c. is seconded to another entity or organisation (either to another Constituent Entity in the MNE Group or to an entity outside of the MNE Group) in another 
jurisdiction;  
d. engages in interjurisdictional travel as the central component of t he business 
– for example, an employee working in an international transportation 
industry; or  
e. works outside of the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer without entering another jurisdiction – for example, the employee may work in 
international waters or in space.  
11. There are also a variety of circumstances where Eligible Tangible Assets would be located outside 
of the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity owner, including where the asset:  
a. is used internationally as a central component of the busi ness function – for 
example, an asset used in the international transportation industry such as an 
airplane or ship;  
b. is used outside the jurisdiction of Constituent Entity owner without entering 
another jurisdiction –  for example, a satellite launched from the jurisdiction of 
the Constituent Entity owner;  
c. is located across multiple jurisdictions (and partially outside any jurisdiction) 
– for example, a submarine cable through international waters; or  42 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  d. is moved between different jurisdictions for a non- transportation reason –  for 
example, a piece of farming equipment which is used in neighbouring states.  
Structure of Article 5.3.  
12. The structure of Article 5.3 calculates the payroll carve- out and tangible asset carve- out with 
respect to each Constituent Entity separately. The total Substance- based Income Exclusion for the 
jurisdiction is the aggregated sum of these amounts for each Constituent Entity in the jurisdiction. Article 
5.3 requires that the Eligible Employees and Eligible Tangible As sets of each Constituent Entity are 
determined.  
13. The definition of Eligible Employees does not itself contain any limitation based upon the location 
of the employee. However, Article 5.3.3 only grants payroll carve- out with respect to Eligible Employees 
that perform activities for the MNE Group in the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer. The 
provision does not allow any carve- out to be provided for an Eligible Employee who does not perform their 
work activities in the jurisdiction of the employer .  
14. The definition of Eligible Tangible Assets contains limiting language to include only assets which 
are located in the jurisdiction (with the exception of ‘a licence or similar arrangement from the government 
for the use of immovable property or exploitation of natural resources that entails significant investment in tangible assets’). In addition to this limitation in the definition, Article 5.3.4 mirrors Article 5.3.3 in only 
granting tangible asset carve- out for Eligible Tangible Assets located in the jurisdiction.  
15. Neither Article 5.3.3 nor Article 5.3.4 create an ability to allocate payroll carve- out or tangible asset 
carve -out to another Constituent Entity. Accordingly, any Eligible Payroll Costs of a Constituent Entity for 
its Eligible Employees which do not result in payroll carve- out for that Constituent Entity do not produce 
any Substance- based Income Exclusion  for the MNE Group. Similarly, to the extent that the carrying value 
of Eligible Tangible Assets of a Constituent Entity does not result in  tangible asset carve- out for that 
Constituent Entity, it does not produce any Substance- based Income Exclusion for the MNE Group.  
Allocation  
16. The remaining question is how to calculate the payroll carve- out and tangible asset carve- out for 
Eligible Employ ees and Eligible Tangible Assets which are sometimes located in the jurisdiction and 
sometimes located outside of the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer/owner.  
17. There would be an integrity risk to the rules if any presence within the jurisdict ion of the Constituent 
Entity employer/owner was sufficient to allow for a full allocation of the relevant payroll carve- out or tangible 
asset carve -out. As articulated  in the Commentary, the purpose of the rule using Eligible Employees and 
Eligible Tangible Assets in a jurisdiction was to capture the substantive activities occurring in that jurisdiction. This purpose would be undermined if employees could be allocated to a jurisdiction simply by being formally employed by a Constituent Entity in another jurisdiction and working in that jurisdiction for 
a single day in the year.  
18. In considering an allocation rule, the most natural contender is the amount of working time spent 
within the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer/owner during the Financi al Year. However, 
substantial compliance costs would be imposed if the allocation mechanism required businesses to track 
the location of each Eligible Employee (and in some cases Eligible Tangible Asset) every day. Accordingly, 
there are substantial benefi ts in adopting an allocation rule which is simple whilst remaining consistent with 
the principle behind the Substance- based Income Exclusion –  that the rule must act as a reasonable proxy 
for substantial activity occurring in the jurisdiction.  
19. In order to prevent disproportionate compliance costs for businesses with employees that may 
work remotely some of the time or who may travel for business purposes upon occasion, a threshold test   | 43 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  above which the full payroll carve- out can be allocated to a jurisdicti on is considered appropriate. For 
instance, if an Eligible Employee spends more than 50% of their working time within the jurisdiction of their 
Constituent Entity employer, the Constituent Entity employer will be entitled to claim the full payroll carve-
out with respect to that Eligible Employee.  
20. If an Eligible Employee spends less than 50% of their working time in the jurisdiction of the 
Constituent Entity employer, the Constituent Entity would still be entitled to proportionately claim the payroll 
carve -out with respect to the working time spent within the jurisdiction. For example, if the Eligible 
Employee spent 30% of their working time in the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity, then the MNE Group would be able to claim 30% of the payroll carv e-out with respect to that Eligible Employee.  
21. It is expected that with suitable company policies (which are appropriately enforced), employers 
would be able to determine whether this test was satisfied with respect to the majority of their employees 
withou t the burden of tracking the location of every employee every day. For example, a business could 
have a policy which allowed employees to work from home two days per week. If these employees were 
otherwise required to work in the office of the Constituent Entity employer (located in that jurisdiction) and the policy was suitably enforced, then the Constituent Entity would be entitled to claim the full payroll carve-
out with respect to its employees regardless of whether some worked remotely from a different  jurisdiction. 
Similarly, the employer would not need to track the location of employees that travel for business on an 
occasional basis.  
22. If a Constituent Entity employer could not establish that its Eligible Employees met the threshold 
requirement in this  way, then it would need to keep a n auditable record of the days in which the relevant 
employees were located in the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer in order to establish either 
that the employee met the 50% threshold or to claim the propor tionate payroll carve- out below the 50% 
threshold. The MNE Group retains the option not to claim any payroll carve- out with respect to such 
employees and therefore is not required to track and trace this information.  
23. The Inclusive Framework  will give furt her consideration to a simplified allocation mechanism with 
respect to industries with a substantial portion of their employees and assets located outside of the jurisdiction for a substantial portion of the Fiscal Year.  
Permanent Establishments  
24. Where an E ligible Employee or an Eligible Tangible Asset is employed or owned by an Main Entity 
which has a Permanent Establishment, it will be first necessary to allocate that employee or asset to the 
relevant Constituent Entity. In these cases, the legal entity which employs the person or owns the asset 
will consist of multiple Constituent Entities –  the Main Entity and the Permanent Establishment(s). The 
Eligible Payroll Costs of Eligible Employees and carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets must be 
allocated between the Main Entity and the Permanent Establishment(s)  in accordance with Article 5.3.6 
prior to considering whether the relevant Constituent Entity is able to claim the full payroll carve- out or 
tangible asset carve- out with respect to that employee or  asset.  
Guidance  
25. A Constituent Entity’s payroll carve- out is intended, in principle, to be reduced to the extent that 
the relevant Eligible Employees perform their activities for the MNE Group outside of the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity. Similarl y, a Constituent Entity’s tangible asset carve- out is intended, in principle, to be 
reduced to the extent that the asset is located outside of the jurisdiction of that Constituent Entity. This is 
consistent with the purpose of the Substance- based Income Ex clusion as outlined in paragraph 25 of the 
Commentary to Article 5.  44 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  26. Despite this overall approach, a simplification can be adopted by the MNE Group in performing 
the relevant allocation such that all of the payroll carve -out or tangible asset carve -out can be retained by 
the Constituent Entity where:  
a. an Eligible Employee is located within the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity 
employer more than 50% of their working time; and  
b. an Eligible Tangible Asset is located within the jurisdiction of the Constitue nt 
Entity owner more than 50% of the time.  
27. In circumstances where the Eligible Employee or Eligible Tangible Asset is located in the 
jurisdiction 50% or less of the time, the Constituent Entity will only be entitled to claim the proportionate share of the payroll carve- out and tangible asset carve -out for that Eligible Employee or Eligible Tangible 
Asset. Further consideration will be given to a simplified allocation mechanism with respect to industries 
with a substantial portion of their employees and assets located outside of the jurisdiction for a substantial 
portion of the Fiscal Year.  
28. To clarify, paragraph 33 of the Commentary  to Article 5.3.3 will be revised as follows:  
33. The payroll carve- out is computed on a jurisdictional basis and is based on the Eligible Payroll 
Costs of Eligible Employees that perform activities in the jurisdiction where the Constituent Entity 
employer is located. Employees will generally perform their activity in the jurisdiction where the Constituent Entity employer is located (employer’s jurisdiction). However, in certain cases the 
employee may also perform work for their employer outside the employer’s jurisdiction. 
Consideration will be given to the development of Agreed Administrative Guidance as part of the 
GloBE Implementation Framework to address those cases where the employee performs part of 
its activities in another jurisdiction and for those employees that perform their activity in multiple 
jurisdictions.  
29. Paragraph 33.1 will be inserted to the Commentary to Article 5.3.3:  
33.1. Where the employee undertakes more than 50% of their activities for the MNE Group during the relevant period within the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer, the Constituent Entity will be entitled to the full payroll carve- out with respect to that employee. Where the employee 
undertakes 50% or less of their activities for the MNE Group during the relevant period within the jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer, the Constituent Entity will only be entitled to the proportion of the payroll carve- out attributable to the employee’s working time spent within the 
jurisdiction of the Constituent Entity employer. For example, if the Eligible Employee spends only 30% of their working time in the jurisdiction of their Constituent Entity employer, then the Constituent Entity is only able to claim 30% of the payroll carve- out with respect to that Eligible 
Employee.  
30. Paragraph 38 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.3 will be revised as follows:  
38. The tangible asset carve- out requires that the tangible assets are located in the same 
jurisdiction as the Constituent Entity that owns them or, in the situation where the tangible asset falls into categories (c) or (d), in the same jurisdiction as the Constituent Entity that holds the right -
of-use of the asset. It is expected that, in most cases, the tangible asset will be located in the same 
jurisdiction as the Constituent Entity that owns or leases the asset. However, under specific circumstances, the nature of the asset and the way it is used may be such that it is not located in any jurisdiction or is located in multiple jurisdictions (e.g. an aircraft of an international airline) at 
different times during the Fiscal Year. Consideration will be given to the development of Agreed 
Administrative Guidance as part of the GloBE Implementation Framework to address those cases.  
31. Paragraph 38.1 will be inserted to the Commentary to Article 5.3.4:    | 45 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  38.1. Where the tangible asset is located within the jurisdiction of its Constituent Entity owner (or 
lessee, if applicable) more than 50% of the time during the relevant period, the Constituent Entity 
will be entitled to the full tangible asset carve- out with respect to that asset. Where the tangible 
asset is located within the jurisdiction of its Constituent Entity ow ner (or lessee, if applicable) 50% 
or less of the time during the relevant period, the Constituent Entity will only be entitled to the tangible asset carve- out in proportion to the time the asset was located within the jurisdiction of 
the Constituent Entit y owner (or lessee, if applicable).  
Simplification  
Introduction  
32. The Substance- based Income Exclusion is an exclusion from the GloBE Income of a formulaic 
return on the Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets within a jurisdiction for the purpos es of 
calculating the MNE Group’s Excess Profit in that jurisdiction. Under Article 5.3.1, a Filing Constituent 
Entity may make an Annual Election not to apply the Substance- based Income Exclusion. Accordingly, it 
is, in effect, an optional amount. An amount of Substance- based Income Exclusion can only reduce the 
top-up tax paid with respect to a jurisdiction under the GloBE Rules. The Substance- based Income 
Exclusion is a function of the Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets in the jurisdicti on.  
33. A question arises as to whether the MNE is required to calculate the full amount of Eligible Payroll 
Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets in order to make any claim whatsoever, or whether the MNE is able to 
limit its claim for Substance -based Income Exc lusion to a subset of the total amount.  
34. For example, an MNE Group may easily be able to access the Eligible Payroll Costs of its regular 
employees but would need to engage in substantial compliance work to determine the full Eligible Payroll 
Costs with respect to the relatively limited number of independent contractors it engaged that met the 
definition of Eligible Employees . If, for example, the cost of documenting and substantiating the full Eligible 
Payroll Costs with respect to these independent contractors was disproportionate to the benefit of the 
related amount of Substance- based Income Exclusion, the MNE may prefer not to include these amounts 
in its Eligible Payroll Costs. Nevertheless, the MNE would want to claim the Substance- based Income 
Exclusi on with respect to the Eligible Payroll Costs for its regular employees (for which this documentation 
was not a substantial administrative burden).  
Issues to be considered 
35. Stakeholders have asked for clarification that an MNE Group is not required to calc ulate the full 
amount of Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets in order to make any claim for Substance-based Income Exclusion whatsoever. In other words, stakeholders have sought confirmation that the MNE 
is able to make a claim for some, bu t not all, of its Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets for 
the jurisdiction.  
Guidance  
36. The intention is that MNEs could choose only to claim those Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible 
Tangible Assets for which it was willing to undertake the r elevant compliance work. To clarify this intention, 
the following paragraph is added after paragraph 29 of the Commentary to  Article 5.3.1.  
29.1 An MNE Group is allowed to claim only a subset of its total Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible 
Tangible Assets  when calculating its Substance- based Income Exclusion. The MNE Group is not 
required to calculate the maximum allowable amount of Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible 
Assets in order to make any claim for Substance- based Income Exclusion whatsoever.  46 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Stock -based compensation  
Introduction  
37. This section provides guidance on the definition of ‘Eligible Payroll Costs’ with respect to stock -
based compensation. The Eligible Payroll Costs with respect to Eligible Employees are relevant in 
determining the si ze of the Substance- based Income Exclusion for a jurisdiction under Article 5.3.  
38. Article 10.1 states that:  
Eligible Payroll Costs means employee compensation expenditures (including salaries, wages, 
and other expenditures that provide a direct and separat e personal benefit to the employee, such 
as health insurance and pension contributions), payroll and employment taxes, and employer 
social security contributions.  
39. Paragraph 34 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.3 clarifies that this definition includes stoc k-based 
compensation. Paragraph 35 then states that ‘the payroll carve- out is based on the total amount of the 
payroll expenditures accrued in the financial accounts for the Fiscal Year,’ except for payroll expenses 
capitalized into the carrying value of c ertain assets. These paragraphs clarify the meaning of Eligible 
Payroll Costs in the context of the Substance- based Income Exclusion.  
40. Stock -based compensation is also addressed by the Model Rules in a different context –  the 
allocation of GloBE Income or Loss under Article 3.2. Under Article 3.2.2, the Model Rules allow for a Filing 
Constituent Entity to make an election to:  
…substitute the amount allowed as a deduction in the computation of its taxable income in its 
location for the amount expensed in its  financial accounts for a cost or expense of such Constituent 
Entity that was paid with stock -based compensation.  
41. As noted in the Commentary, this election was included to address a common disparity between 
tax and accounting with respect to stock -based compensation. Many Inclusive Framework jurisdictions 
allow for a deduction for stock -based compensation based on the market value of the stock when the 
option is exercised. However, for accounting purposes companies generally account for stock -based 
compensation based on the present value of the stock option at the time of issuance and amortise that 
amount over the exercise period.  
42. This disparity in treatment could depress the GloBE ETR. The election in Article 3.2.2 allows a 
Constituent Entity  to substitute the amount allowed as a deduction in the computation of its taxable income 
in its location for the amount expensed in its financial accounts for a cost or expense of such Constituent 
Entity that was paid with stock -based compensation. This rule operates t o allow an alignment between the 
GloBE tax base and a domestic tax rule which exists in many Inclusive Framework jurisdictions.  
Issues to be considered 
43. Stakeholders have asked for clarification as to whether the amount of stock -based compensation 
taken into account under the definition of Eligible Payroll Costs is:  
a. the amount of stock -based compensation included in the financial accounts; 
or  
b. the amount included as an expense in the Constituent Entity’s Financial 
Accounting Net Income or Loss under Article 3 (and therefore would be 
impacted by an election made under Article 3.2.2).    | 47 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Guidance  
44. The amount of Eligible P
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: ayroll Cost included with respect to stoc k-based compensation is intended 
to be the amount included in the financial accounts  used to determine the Constituent Entity’s Financial 
Accounting Net Income or Loss . It is not intended to be modified by an election made under Article 3.2.2.  
45. To clarify,  the text in bold will be inserted in paragraph 34 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.3:  
34. The payroll carve- out takes a broad approach to determining Eligible Payroll Costs based 
on a general test of whether the expenditure of the employer gives rise to a direct and separate 
personal benefit to the employee. Article 10.1 defines a Constituent Entity’s Eligible Payroll Costs 
to include expenditures for salaries and wages as well as for other employee benefits or 
remuneration such as medical insurance, payments to a Pension Fund or other retirement benefits, bonuses and allowances payable to Eligible Employees, and stock -based compensation. The 
amount of Eligible Payroll Cost for stock -based compensation is that included in the 
relevant financial accounts used to determine the Constituent Entity’s payroll carve -out and 
is not impacted by an election under Article 3.2.2.  Eligible Payroll Costs also includes payroll 
taxes (or other employee expense- related taxes such as fringe benefits taxes), as well as employer 
social security contributions.  
  48 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Lease  
Introduction  
46. This section provides guidance on the computational rules in Article 5.3.4 for determining the 
tangible asset carve- out attributable to Eligible Tangible Assets for a jurisdiction. Article 5.3.4 provides that 
Eligible Tangible Assets include “a lessee’s right of use of tangible assets located in that jurisdiction” and 
“the tangible asset carve- out computation shall not include the carrying value of property (including land 
or buildings) that is held for sale, lease or investment”.  
47. The Commentary clarifies that in a lease agreement, a lessee recognises a “right -of-use” asset on 
its balance sheet and will be treated as the owner of the tangible asset for purposes of the Substance-
based Income Exclusion.  The lessor of an asset is not allowed a carve- out with respect to the carrying 
value of the leased asset.  
48. For financial accounting purposes, a lessor classifies each of its leases as either an operating 
lease or a finance lease. In general, a finance lease means a lease under which the lessor transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset, while an operating 
lease means a lease under which the lessor does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership of an underlying asset.  
49. Under a finance lease, a lessor recognizes a receivable on its balance sheet at an amount equal 
to the net investment in the lease, and the leased assets are not reflected in its balance sheet. However, 
under an operating lease, the leased assets are still present in the balance sheet of the lessor, and the 
lessor recognizes lease payments as income on either a straight -line basis or another systematic basis 
and recognizes costs, including depreciation, incurred in earning the lease income as an expense.  
Issues to be considered 
50. Stakeholders have asked whether a lessor is allowed a carve- out in respect of the carrying value 
of the leased asset subject to an operating lease . 
51. If the lessee in an inter -company lease does not recognizes a “right -of-use” asset on its balance 
sheet, stakeholders have asked whether  the lessee is allowed a carve- out with respect to that asset .  
52. Where a lessor leases  a substantial part of an Eligible Tangible Asset to a lessee and retains  the 
residual part of the asset for its own use, stakeholders have asked whether the carrying value of the asset 
should be allocated between the uses.  
Guidance  
53. The text below will rep lace paragraph 43 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.4:  
Property held for lease  
43. Financial accounting distinguishes between finance leases and operating leases. Under a 
finance lease the lessor is treated, in effect, as transferring the underlying assets,  which may be 
tangible assets, to the lessee in exchange for a receivable, which is not a tangible asset. In such 
cases, the lessor no longer has the carrying value of tangible assets in its financial accounts. The 
lessee will in most cases create a “right -of-use” asset in its financial accounts, which reflects its 
right to use the tangible property during the term of the lease. The GloBE Rules treat a “right -of-
use” asset as tangible asset if the underlying asset itself is tangible. Thus, the lessee will b e 
permitted to include the accounting carrying value of its right -of-use asset in  calculating  its SBIE. 
In a finance lease, the right -of-use asset will be substantially similar in amount to what the carrying 
value of the asset would have been if the asset had been purchased instead of leased.    | 49 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  43.1.1  Under an operating lease, the lessor may have a receivable in respect of the lease but 
continues to account for the underlying assets in its financial accounts and on its balance sheet. 
Depending upon the term of the lease, the lessee may still account for  its interest in the leased 
asset as a “right -of-use” asset, which may be included in the lessee’s Eligible Tangible Assets if 
the underlying property is a tangible asset and located in the same jurisdiction as the lessee. Thus, for GloBE purposes, the fin ancial accounts of both the lessor and lessee recogni se an asset that 
could qualify as an Eligible Tangible Asset but for the rule that excludes assets held for lease from the scope of Eligible Tangible Assets. If a lessee (including a lessee that is a Constituent Entity of 
the same MNE Group as the lessor) does not recogni se a right -of-use asset with respect to a 
leased asset in its financial accounts, the lessee cannot create a fictional or hypothetical right -of-
use asset for purposes of the GloBE Rules. This may happen where the lease is a short -term lease 
(a term of 12 months or less) or the value of the lease is not material.  
43.1.2  As applied to a finance lease, t his rule reflects the fact that the lessor is not actively using 
the underlying asset to e arn income , but instead is providing financing in respect of the asset . It is 
therefore not a reliable measure of substantive activities of the lessor  in a jurisdiction.  
43.1.3  In an operating lease, however, the lease or rental period is often substantial ly less than 
the productive life of the asset. It is less clear that assets subject to consecutive operating leases 
over their productive life are not actively used in a business. In some cases, the assets may be 
used in a business that could be considered primarily a service, such as a hotel or short -term 
automobile rental.  
43.1.4  The exclusion of property held for lease prevents two separate MNE Groups or two 
Constituent Entities of the same MNE Group from claiming SBIE in respect of the same item of 
tangible property. In a finance lease, the lessee can take the full value of the property into account 
based on its right -of-use asset. However, in the case of an operating lease, the lessee’s right of 
use asset will often be far less than the lessor’s carrying value of the asset, meaning that there 
would typically not be a complete duplication under an operating lease.  
43.1.5  The Inclusive Framework has determined that in the case of an operating lease, the lessor 
will be allowed to take a portion of the carry ing value of an asset subject to an operating lease into 
account in determining its Eligible Tangible Asset  if the asset is located in the same jurisdiction as 
the lessor. The amount allowed is equal to the excess, if any, of the lessor’s average carrying value of the asset determined at the beginning and end of the Fiscal Year  over the average amount of 
the lessee’s right of use asset determined at the beginning and end of the Fiscal Year.  By allowing 
only the excess of the carrying value over the right-of-use asset, the lessor is prevented from also 
claiming SBIE in respect of the same asset value that is included in the lessee’s SBIE computation. 
If the lessee is not a Constituent Entity, the lessee’s right -of-use asset for this purpose shall be 
equal to the un- discounted  amount of payments remaining due under the lease, including any 
extensions that would be taken into account in determining a right -of-use asset under the financial 
accounting standard used to determine the Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss of the lessor. In the case of a short -term rental asset, for example a hotel room or rental car, the lessee’s right -
of-use asset shall be deemed to be nil. A short -term rental asset is an asset that is regularly leased 
several times to dif ferent lessees during the Fiscal Year and the average lease period, including 
any renewals and extensions, with respect to each lessee is 30 days or less .  
43.1.6  The carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets is determined after taking into account 
elimination entries for intercompany sales. The carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets that are 
subject to a finance lease or an operating lease between two Constituent Entities located in the 
same jurisdiction is determined after taking into account elimina tion entries in consolidation for the 
intercompany lease. Consequently, the lessee in an intercompany operating lease will not have a 50 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  right-of-use asset and the lessor’s carrying values for purposes of preparing the Consolidated 
Financial Statements are us ed to compute its  carveout.  
Dual use assets  
43.1.7.  When a lessor leases  a substantial part of an Eligible Tangible Asset to a lessee and 
retains  the residual part of the asset for its own use, e.g., leasing some floors or the parking lot of 
a headquarters  building, the carrying value of the asset must be allocated between the different 
uses of the property . For the lessor, the carrying value of an Eligible Tangible Asset shall be 
allocated between the leas ed part and the residual part based on a reasonable allocation key in 
respect of the assets (e.g., surface area of the building). The lessor shall take into account the 
carrying value of the Eligible Tangible Assets allocated to the residual part and may apply the 
guidance on the treatment of property subj ect to an operating lease in respect of the carrying value 
allocated to the leased part . 
Example  
54. The following examples will be included in the GloBE Model Rules Examples.  
Example 5.3.4- 1 
1. A Co is a Constituent Entity of MNE Group A located in jurisdiction X that is subject to the GloBE 
Rules. B Co is a Constituent Entity of MNE Group B located in jurisdiction X that is subject to the 
GloBE Rules. A Co leased a machine to B Co. The machine is used by B Co in Jurisdiction X. 
According to the lease contract, t he commencement date is on January 1, 2024, the lease term is 
3 years, and the lease payment is €100,000 annually. The lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is 
5%. Pursuant to its financial accounting standard, A Co classifies this lease as an operating lease. 
At the beginning of the 2024, the carrying value of the machine is €1,200,000 and the useful life 
of the machine is 15 years.  
2. Pursuant to its financial account ing standard, B Co classifies the lease as a right -of-use asset. On 
January 1, 2024, B Co measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that 
are not paid at that date, using its incremental borrowing rate of 5%. After the commencement 
date, B Co measures the right -of-use asset applying a cost model. The amortization schedule of 
B Co at the commencement date of the lease is as follows:  
Period  Lease Payment  Interest Expense  Liability 
Reduction  Liability  Depreciation Expense  Net Asset  
Balance  
Beginning Balance  272,325  272,325 
2024 100,000 13,616 86,384 185,941 90,775 181,500 
2025 100,000 9,297 90,703 95,238 90,775 90,775 
2026 100,000 4,762 95,238 0 90,775 0 
3. The carrying value of the leased machine for purpose of carve -out for B Co is computed as follows:  
a. In 2024, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 226,912.5 (=(272,325+181,500)/2).  
b. In 2025, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 136,137.5 (=(181,500+90,775)/2).  
c. In 2026, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 45,387.5 (=(90,775+0)/2).    | 51 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  4. Under an operating lease, A Co recognises  lease payments as income and the depreciation policy 
for the underlying  assets is consistent with the lessor’s normal depreciation policy for similar 
assets. The d epreciation schedule of A  Co is as follows:  
Period  Lease payment  Remining Lease 
Payments  Income Depreciation 
Expense  Net Asset 
Balance  
Beginning Balance  300,000   1,200,000 
2024 100,000 200,000 100,000 80,000 1,120,000 
2025 100,000 100,000 100,000 80,000 1,040,000 
2026 100,000 0 100,000 80,000 960,000 
5. The carrying value of the leased machine for purpose of carve- out for A  Co is computed as follows:  
a. In 2024, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 910,000 (=(1,200,000+1,120,000)/2-
250,000).  
b. In 2025, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 930,000 (=(1,120,000+1,040,000)/2-
150,000).  
c. In 2026, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 950,000 (= (1,040,000+960,000)/2-
50,000).  
Example 5.3.4- 2 
1. The facts are the same as in Example 5.4.3- 1, except that  A Co is located in Jurisdiction Y. 
Because the machine is used by B Co in Jurisdiction X, it is not an Eligible Tangible Asset for A 
Co. 
Example 5.3.4- 3 
1. The facts are the same as in Example 5.4.3- 1, except that both A Co and B Co are Constituent 
Entities of MNE Group A.  
2. The carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets is determined after taking into account elimination 
entries for intercompany sales and, where the lessor and the lessee are located in the same 
jurisdiction, intercompany leases. Accordingly, A Co is allowed a carve- out and t he carrying value 
of Eligible Tangible Assets  for purposes  of the carve -out for jurisdiction A is computed as follows:  
a. In 2024, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 1,160,000 (=1,200,000+1,120,000)/2)  
b. In 2025, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 1,080,000 (=1,120,000+1,040,000)/2)  
c. In 2026, the carrying value for purposes of carve- out is 1,000,000 (=1,040,000+960,000)/2)  
  52 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Impairment Losses  
Introduction  
55. This s ection provides guidance on determining the carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets in 
the context of an impairment loss. The carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets is relevant in determining 
the size of the Substance- based Income Exclusion for a jurisdiction under Article 5.3.  
56. Article 5.3.5 states:  
The computation of carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets for purposes of Article 5.3.4 shall be 
based on the average of the carrying value (net of accumulated depreciation, amortisation, or 
depletion and including any amount attributable to capitalisation of payroll expense) at the 
beginning and ending of the Reporting Fiscal Year as recorded for the purposes of preparing the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Ultimate Parent Entity.  
57. Paragraph 4 9 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.5 makes clear that the carrying value for the 
purposes of the carve -out is in conformity with the carrying value of the asset recorded for the purposes of 
preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Specifically with  respect to impairment losses, the 
Commentary to Article 5.3.5 states at paragraph 50:  
After initial recognition as an asset, an item of property, plant and equipment is carried on the 
balance sheet at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any acc umulated impairment 
losses (referred to as the “cost model”). Depreciation refers to the systematic allocation of the cost 
of an asset , less its residual or “salvage” value, over its useful life. An impairment loss is the amount 
by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.  
Issues to be considered 
58. Stakeholders  have asked for clarification on:  
a. whether the amount of impairment losses should be taken into account in 
computing the carrying value of the Eligible Tangible Assets; and  
b. whether the reversal of an impairment charge with respect to an Eligible 
Tangible Asset should be taken into account in computing the carrying value 
of the Eligible Tangible Assets.  
Guidance  
59. The carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets is intended to include adjustments for impairment 
losses. Accordingly, where an impairment loss has been recognised with respect to an Eligible Tangible Asset under the applicable financial accounting standards, the amount of the impairment loss will be taken into account in determining the carrying value of the asset at the end of the Reporting Fiscal Year.  
60. If there is a reversal of the impairment charge under the applicable accounting standards, the 
amount of the reversal shall be taken into account in determining the carrying value of the Eligible Tangible 
Asset at the end of the Reporting Fiscal Year. However, an impairment charge can only be reversed to the 
extent that the total carrying value of the Eligi ble Tangible Asset does not exceed the carrying value that 
would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised 
for the asset.  
61. To clarify, the following paragraph will be added after paragraph 50 of the Co mmentary to Article 
5.3.5:    | 53 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  50.1.  Where an impairment loss is recognised under the financial accounting standard used to 
prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to an Eligible Tangible Asset, the 
carrying value of that asset will be reduc ed at the end of the Reporting Fiscal Year to reflect that 
impairment loss. If a reversal of that impairment loss is recognised under that financial accounting 
standard, the carrying value of the Eligible Tangible Asset will be increased at the end of the 
Reporting Fiscal Year  to reflect that reversal, but the reversal cannot increase the carrying value 
of the asset above the amount which would have been determined had there been no impairment loss recognised in prior years. Ordinarily, the adjustments desc ribed in this paragraph will be 
reflected in the carrying value of the relevant asset in the Constituent Entity’s financial accounts  
used to determine the Constituent Entity’s tangible asset carve- out. If they are not reflected in 
these  financial accounts,  the adjustments must be made to the carrying value of the relevant assets 
for purposes of determining the Substance- based Income Exclusion.  
  54 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Reduction due to Article 7.2  
Introduction  
62. This section provides guidance on how Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets are 
allocated with respect to an Ultimate Parent Entity (UPE) which is subject to a Deductible Dividend Regime.  
63. Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets are used to determine the Substance- based 
Income Exclusion for a jurisdiction. The Substance- based Income Exclusion is designed to exclude a 
formulaic return on the substance in the jurisdiction from the amount of GloBE Income which is subject to 
top-up tax .  
64. The usual application of this rule is predicated on the assumption that all of the MNE’s GloBE 
Income in the jurisdiction is counted towards that jurisdiction for the purpose of determining the 
jurisdiction’s GloBE Income and Excess Profit. However, there are special circumstances in which the GloBE Income derived by a Constituent Entity is excluded from the GloBE Income of that entity due to a 
special rule. In these cases, an adjustment to the amount of Substance- based Income Exclusion is 
appropriate.  
65. The GloBE Rules reflect this design with respect to cases where the UPE of the MNE Group is a 
Flow -Through Entity. Under Article 7.1.1, the GloBE Income of that UPE is reduced by the amount of 
income attributable to each Ownership Interest which meets certain criteria. Where the GloBE Income of 
the UPE is reduced as a result of this provision, there is a corresponding adjustment to the amount of 
Substance- based Income Exclusion for the jurisdiction. Under Article 5.3.7(b), Eligible Payroll Costs and 
Eligible  Tangible Assets located in the jurisdiction of the UPE are allocated to the UPE and reduced in 
proportion to the income which is excluded under Article 7.1.1.  
66. Under Article 7.2., where a UPE is subject to a Deductible Dividend Regime and distributes a 
Deductible Dividend, that entity reduces (but not below zero) its GloBE Income by the amount of the 
dividend (if certain criteria are met). While not operating through a Flow -Through Entity, this treatment is 
similar to the reduction in GloBE Income which ari ses under Article 7.1.1.  
Issues to be considered 
67. Stakeholders have asked for clarification as to whether there is also a proportionate reduction in 
the Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets where there has been a Deductible Dividend distribu ted by the UPE which reduces GloBE Income as a result of Article 7.2.1.  
Guidance  
68. The intention is that where income has been excluded from the GloBE Income of a UPE as a result 
of a Deductible Dividend Regime, there should be a corresponding adjustment to the amounts of Eligible 
Payroll Cost and Eligible Tangible Assets. If there were no adjustment to these amounts, then the 
Substance- based Income Exclusion will be disproportionately large compared to the amount of GloBE 
Income in the jurisdiction under the GloBE Rules.  
69. In order to give effect to this intention, there are three additions to the Commentary.  
70. The following paragraph will be added after paragraph 36 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.3:  
36.1 The payroll carve- out computation shall not include an amount of Eligible Payroll Cost 
attributable to the income excluded from the GloBE Income of the UPE under Article 7.2.1. Where 
the UPE of an MNE Group makes a distribution which is subject to a Deductible Dividend Regime 
(and other conditions are met), an amount of GloBE Income can be excluded from the GloBE 
Income of that UPE under Article 7.2.1. To the extent such an exclusion occurs, there will be a   | 55 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  proportionate reduction in the Eligible Payroll Costs of the UPE. The reduction will be equal to the 
total Eligible Payroll Costs of the UPE multiplied by the ratio of the GloBE Income excluded under 
Article 7.2.1 to the total GloBE Income determined for the UPE (before the Article 7.2.1 exclusion). 
This adjustment will be equivalent to that made under Articl e 5.3.7(b).  Further, the Eligible Payroll 
Costs of any other Constituent Entity located in the jurisdiction that is subject to the Deductible 
Dividend Regime shall be reduced in proportion to its GloBE Income that is excluded under Article 
7.2.3 compared t o its total GloBE Income.  
71. The following paragraph will be added after paragraph 48 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.4:  
48.1 The tangible asset carve- out computation shall not include the carrying value of Eligible 
Tangible Assets proportionately attributable to the income excluded from the GloBE Income of the 
UPE under Article 7.2.1. Where the UPE of an MNE Group makes a distribution which is subject 
to a Deductible Dividend Regime (and other conditions are met), an amount of GloBE Income can 
be excluded fr om the GloBE Income of that UPE under Article 7.2.1. To the extent this occurs, 
there will be a proportionate reduction in the carrying value of the Eligible Tangible Assets of the 
UPE. The reduction will be equal to the total carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets of the UPE 
multiplied by the ratio of the GloBE Income excluded under Article 7.2.1 to the total GloBE Income 
determined for the UPE (before the Article 7.2.1 exclusion). This adjustment will be equivalent to 
that made under Article 5.3.7(b).  Further, the Eligible Payroll Costs of any other Constituent Entity 
located in the jurisdiction that is subject to the Deductible Dividend Regime shall be reduced in proportion to its GloBE Income that is excluded under Article 7.2.3 compared to its total  GloBE 
Income.  
72. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, paragraph 
63 of the Commentary to Article 5.3.7:  
63. The second scenario is where the Flow -through Entity is the UPE of the MNE Group. In this case, the 
Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss of the UPE is allocated to such Entity in accordance with Article 
3.5.1(c). However, Article 7.1.1 excludes such income or loss provided that certain conditions are met. In 
this case, paragraph (b) allocates the El igible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets included in the 
UPE’s financial statements to the extent that they are not excluded from the GloBE income or loss in 
accordance with Article 7.1.1. In effect, there will be a proportionate reduction in the Eligible Payroll 
Costs and carrying value of the Eligible Tangible Assets of the UPE. The reduction will be equal to 
the total Eligible Payroll Costs and carrying value of Eligible Tangible Assets of the UPE (including 
any Eligible Payroll Costs and carryi ng value of Eligible Tangible Assets allocated to the UPE 
pursuant to Article 5.3.7(a)) multiplied by the ratio of the GloBE Income excluded under Article 7.1.1 
to the total GloBE Income determined for the UPE (before the Article 7.1.1 exclusion).  Stated 
differently, the amount of Eligible Payroll Costs and Eligible Tangible Assets associated with the income 
excluded under Article 7.1.1 is not allocated to the UPE and is excluded from the Substance- based Income 
Exclusion computations in accordance with the next paragraph.  56 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Introduction 
1. The Administrative Guidance published in February 2023 (the “February AG”) provided some 
guidelines on aspects of the design and operation of a QDMTT to be used for an assessment of whether 
a minimum tax meets the requirements for qualified status. It set out two guiding principles for evaluating 
QDMTTs: (a) the minimum tax must be consistent with the design of the GloBE Rules; and (b) the minimum 
tax must provide for outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules and Commentary (together, 
functional equivalence).  
2. The February AG, however, did not cover certain aspect and implications of a QDMTT and 
anticipated some further guidance to be produced by the Inclusive Framework at a later stage. In light of 
the principles above, this note supplements the February AG and addresses the specific issues identified 
therein as well as some other aspects of a QDMTT that required tailored solutions or additional clarifications.  
Joint Ventures, JV Subsidiaries and MOCEs  
Issue to be considered  
3. According to paragraph 118.10 of the Commentary to Article 10.1, the Jurisdictional Top- up Tax 
that is subject to the QDMTT is based on the whole amount of the Jurisdictional Top- up Tax computed 
under Article 5.2.3 of the GloBE Rules, irrespective of the Ownership Interests held in the Constituent  
Entities located in the QDMTT jurisdiction by any Parent Entity of the MNE Group. Jurisdictions that are concerned about the possibility that the QDMTT  will result in a greater tax charge than the tax charge that 
would arise for a Parent Entity under the GloBE Rules may design their QDMTT legislation to apply only 
where all the domestic Constituent Entities in the jurisdiction are 100% owned by the UPE or a POPE for 
the entire Fiscal Year.  
4. Joint Ventures and Minority -Owned Constituent Entities are subject to separate ETR and Top- up 
Tax computations under the GloBE Rules even when they are located in the same jurisdiction as ordinary 
Constituent Entities of the MNE Group. Paragraph 118.10 is silent on the computation of Top- up Tax for 
Joint Ventures and Minority -Owned Constituent Entities. However, Paragraph 118.10 provides that the  
Jurisdictional Top- up Tax that is subject to the QDMTT is based on the whole amount computed under 
Article 5.2.3 of the GloBE Rules, irrespective of the Ownership Interests held in the Constituent Entities 
located in the QDMTT jurisdiction by any Parent Entity of the MNE Group.  The same principle that applies 
to Constituent Entities  shall apply to Joint Ventures and Minority -Owned Constituent Entities. Thus, the 
Top-up Tax under a QDMTT in respect of Joint Ventures and Minority -Owned Constituent Entities is the 
whole amount  irrespective of the fact that the UPE would only be subject to tax on its share of the Top- up 4 Qualified Domestic Minimum Top -up 
Tax   | 57 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Tax arising from Joint Ventures, JV subsidiaries,  MOCEs . In order to ensure that the other owners of the 
Joint Ventures and Minority -Owned Constituent Entities bear their share of the QDMTT tax liability, the tax 
liability shall be imposed on the Joint Venture, JV Subsidiary or Minority -Owned Constituent Entity, itself.  
5. To illustrate, assume that UPE owns 50% of JV 1 (LTCE) and JV 1 has a Top- up Tax of 100.  
Under Art. 6.4.1 (b) of the GloBE Rules, the UPE’s Allocable Share of the Top- up Tax of JV 1 is 5 0 
(100* 50%). If the UPE were subject to an IIR, the MNE Group’s Top- up Tax liability in respect of JV 1 
would be only 50, similar to a partially -owned Constituent Entity.  However, the Top- up Tax  under a QDMTT 
is based on the whole amount computed for the jurisdiction. Thus, the QDMTT Top- up Tax attributable to 
JV 1 would be 100 and t he UPE would indirectly bear 50 of that tax because it is imposed on the JV.  
Guidance  
6. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, paragraph 
118.8 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
118.8 The GloBE Rules do not impose Top- up Tax on Joint Ventures and JV Subsidiaries but 
rather require the MNE Group to allocate such Top-up Tax to a Constituent Entity of the MNE 
Group under the IIR or the UTPR. As illustrated in paragraph 118.10, jurisdictions could 
design their QDMTT so that it only applies to MNE Groups where all the Constituent Entities 
located in the jurisdictions are wholly -owned by the UPE or a POPE for the entire Fiscal 
Year. In that case, the QDMTT wi
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: ll not apply to Joint Ventures and JV subsidiaries located 
in the jurisdiction . Similarly, jurisdictions that have introduced a QDMTT could choose not to 
impose the QDMTT tax liability on Joint Ventures and JV Subsidiaries located in the jurisdiction 
(and any Top- up Tax computed in respect of such Joint Ventures and JV Subsidiaries will be 
subject to the GloBE Rules). Alternatively, a jurisdiction could impose the QDMTT tax liability 
computed with respect to Joint Ventures and JV Subsidiaries on another Constituent Entity of the 
MNE Group located in the jur isdiction.  
7. The text in bold will be added to paragraph 118.10 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
118.10   The Jurisdictional Top- up Tax that is subject to the QDMTT is based on the whole 
amount of the Jurisdictional Top- up Tax computed under Article 5.2.3 of the GloBE Rules, 
irrespective of the Ownership Interests held in the Constituent Entities located in the QDMTT jurisdiction by any Parent Entity of the MNE Group. The same principle applies where the 
QDMTT is computed with respect to Minority -Owned Constituent Entities, Joint Ventures, 
and JV Subsidiaries, irrespective of the fact that those Entities are subject to separate ETR and Top -up Tax computations under the GloBE Rules and th e QDMTT.  In some situations,  
imposing the whole amount of the Jurisdictional Top- up Tax under a QDMTT will result in a greater 
tax charge than the tax charge that would otherwise have been imposed under the GloBE Rules. This could arise, for example in the  situation where the MNE Group is subject to a QIIR in respect 
of the Constituent Entities located in the QDMTT jurisdiction and the Parent Entity imposing the 
IIR does not own 100% of the Ownership Interests in those Constituent Entities. Jurisdictions may 
choose to implement rules that apply their QDMTT only to Groups where all of the Constituent Entities located in that jurisdiction are 100% owned by the UPE or a POPE for the entire Fiscal 
Year . Jurisdictions that limit the application of their QDMTT to MNE Groups where all the 
Constituent Entitie s located in the jurisdiction are 100% owned by the UPE or POPE for the 
entire Fiscal Year shall similarly not apply their QDMTT to Joint Ventures, JV Subsidiaries 
and Minority -Owned Constituent Entities  located in the jurisdiction . 
8. The text in bold will be added to paragraph 118.11 of the Commentary to Article 10.1. 
118.11  This guidance does not require the QDMTT tax liability arising from Low -Taxed 
Constituent Entities  to be allocated to or among those Constituent Entities in any particular 58 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  manner, so long as all the tax liability is allocated to one or more Constituent Entities that are 
subject to tax in the jurisdiction. Tax arising under the QDMTT reduces (or eliminates) the GloBE 
Top-up Tax for the jurisdicti on as a whole.  When the QDMTT applies to  a member of the JV 
Group or Minority -owned Subgroup (which includes a standalone JV and Minority -owned 
Constituent Entity) the tax liability could be allocated directly to any member of the JV Group or Minority -owne d Subgroup, or to a Constituent Entity located in the same 
jurisdiction . In the case of a tax liability arising from JV Groups, QDMTT jurisdictions that 
allocate the tax liability to Constituent Entities of the main Group should have a mechanism 
to avoid d ouble taxation in cases where both joint venturers are MNE Groups subject to the 
GloBE Rules or a QDMTT. If there is GloBE Top- up Tax remaining after subtracting the QDMTT, 
the remainder is allocated among Constituent Entities under the GloBE Rules, including Articles 
5.2.4 and 5.2.5. Thus, it is not necessary to allocate both the IIR Top- up Tax and the QDMTT tax 
Entity -by-Entity and then subtract the QDMTT tax allocated to an Entity from the IIR Top- up Tax 
allocated to the Entity.  
Blending of income and taxes  
Issue to be considered  
9. Under the jurisdictional blending rules of Chapter 5 of the GloBE Rules, the ETR is computed by 
reference to all the Constituent Entities of the MNE Group located in the same jurisdiction. Calculating a 
group- wide average E TR for the jurisdiction means that: (i) an Entity might qualify as Low -Taxed 
Constituent Entity even if its ETR on a stand- alone basis would equal or exceed the Minimum Rate; and 
(ii) an Entity might not qualify as a Low -Taxed Constituent Entity even if it s ETR on a stand- alone basis 
would fall below the Minimum Rate.  
10. In certain cases, however, domestic rules of QDMTT jurisdictions might not permit jurisdictional 
blending. To address these cases, the guidance set out below allows jurisdictions to blend inc ome and 
taxes at a sub- national level or on a Constituent Entity -by-Constituent Entity basis.  
Guidance  
11. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.33 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
118.33.1 Where domestic rules of a jurisdiction do not provide for taxation of MNE Groups  
at the national level and instead Covered Taxes and a QDMTT are imposed under the law of a 
sub-national governmental authority, such as a regional or provincial government, the sub- national 
governmental authority in the  juri sdiction may apply the QDMTT, including the ETR and Top- up 
Tax computational rules, exclusively to Constituent Entities located in the sub- national jurisdiction 
(e.g. region or province). This will mean that the tax liability under the QDMTT will be determ ined 
based on sub- national jurisdictional blending. Similarly, a jurisdiction, or sub- national jurisdiction, 
may require the QDMTT to be applied on the basis of a taxable unit as determined under its 
domestic law (e.g., a single Constituent Entity). This w ill mean that the tax liability under the 
QDMTT will be determined based on a taxable unit blending (e.g, CE -by-CE blending if the taxable 
unit is a single Constituent Entity ). Determining the ETR on a CE -by-CE basis will not prevent the 
QDMTT from being considered functionally equivalent to the GloBE Rules.    | 59 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Allocation of QDMTT tax liability among Constituent Entities  
Issue to be considered  
12. Any tax payable pursuant to a QDMTT is taken into account under Article 5.2.3 of the GloBE Rules 
to offset the Top- up Tax that would have been computed for the Fiscal Year absent the QDMTT. The 
Jurisdictional Top- up Tax (if any) remaining after subtracting the QDMTT is allocated among Constituent 
Entities in the jurisdiction under Articles 5.2.4, 5.2.5 or 5.4.3. In such cases, the QDMTT tax is implicitly 
allocated for purposes of the GloBE Rules in the same manner as the remaining Jurisdictional Top- up Tax. 
For example, assume the Top- up Tax for a jurisdiction is 100 and 70 is allocated to CE1 and 30 to C E2. If 
instead there were only 10 of Top- up Tax to allocate because the MNE Group paid 90 of QDMTT, 7 of the 
remaining 10 would be allocated to CE1 and 3 would be allocated to CE2. The allocation of Top- up Tax 
among Constituent Entities is for purposes of assessing the tax liability under the QDMTT or the GloBE 
Rules. It is not binding on another jurisdiction for purposes of that jurisdiction’s local tax rules, including 
CFC Tax Regimes.  
13. Whilst Top -up Tax needs to be allocated under Article 5.2 of the GloBE  Rules for IIR purposes, it 
is not generally necessary to allocate the QDMTT liability among Constituent Entities in any particular 
manner. The guidance below, however, provides some possible design options that QDMTT jurisdictions 
might want to consider to allocate the QDMTT liability on a basis that complies with their legal framework. These illustrative examples are only meant to support jurisdictions with the design of their QDMTT 
legislation and are not intended to limit the ability for jurisdictions t o allocate the QDMTT liability in any 
manner that they deem appropriate.  
Guidance  
14. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from paragraph 
118.12 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
118.12   In designing the charging provisions of a QDMTT, jurisdictions must ensure that 
the legal liability for the tax is allocated on a basis that complies with their legal framework and 
enforceable against at least one Constituent Entity. For example, a jurisdiction could impose joint and several liability for QDMTT tax on all the domestic Constituent Entities and collect it from any 
of the Constituent Entities without affecting the outcome under the GloBE Rules. In the case of a 
QDMTT that applies on a CE -by-CE basis,  the QDMTT jurisdiction could allocate the QDMTT 
tax charge only to Constituent Entities that have an ETR lower than the Minimum Rate. If 
jurisdictional blending applies, on the other hand, the QDMTT tax charge could be allocated 
pursuant to the formula in Article 5.2.4 of the GloBE Rules or based on the ratio of the Excess Profits of the Constituent Entity to the Excess Profit of all Constituent Entities 
located in the jurisdiction. To avoid  that minority investors bear the QDMTT tax charge, 
jurisdictions could also decide to allocate it exclusively to wholly -owned Constituent 
Entities. These examples are only intended to provide possible design options and do not limit the ability for jurisdictions to allocate the QDMTT tax charge in any manner they  deem 
appropriate. Moreover, the allocation of the QDMTT tax charge among Constituent Entities 
is not binding on another jurisdiction for purposes of applying its local tax rules, including 
CFC Tax Regimes. The Inclusive Framework will consider providing further guidance in relation 
to the allocation of tax liability under a QDMTT among Constituent Entities where this is necessary 
for the proper functioning of the GloBE Rules  60 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Treatment of Stateless Constituent Entities  
Issue to be considered  
15. For GloBE purposes, Stateless Constituent Entities are Constituent Entities that are not located in 
a jurisdiction pursuant to the location rules in Article 10.3. They are either a Flow -through Entity identified 
in Art. 10.3.2(b) or a Permanent Establishment identif ied in paragraph (d) of the definition in Art. 10.1. Low -
taxed income of Stateless Constituent Entities is subject to the GloBE Rules. Stateless Constituent Entities 
are treated as being the only Constituent Entity in a jurisdiction and therefore they are subject to stand-
alone ETR and Top- up Tax computations.  
16. The question arises as to whether jurisdictions could impose a QDMTT on Stateless Constituent 
Entities and, if this is the case, how these Entities should be treated for GloBE purposes. The guidance 
set out below permits  the application of a QDMTT to Flow -through Entities that are Stateless Constituent 
Entities as long as they are created under the domestic law of the QDMTT jurisdiction  and Stateless 
Permanent Establishment in the jurisdiction where the place of business (or deemed place of business) is 
located.  
Guidance  
17. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.8 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
Stateless Flow -through Entities and PEs  
118.8.1  Stateless Constituent Entities are subject  to a stand- alone ETR and Top- up Tax 
computation for GloBE purposes. A QDMTT does not need to apply to Stateless Constituent 
Entities to be functionally equivalent  to the GloBE Rules. In the case of Flow -through Entities that 
are Stateless Constituent Enti ties, however, jurisdictions are free to impose the QDMTT on these  
Entities  when they  are created under the domestic law of  the jurisdiction. In the case of Permanent 
Establishments that are Stateless Constituent Entities, jurisdictions are free to impose the QDMTT on these Entities provided that the place of business (or deemed place of business) is located 
therein and either there is no tax treaty applicable or there is an applicable tax treaty and the 
jurisdiction where the place of business (or deemed place of business) is located has the right to 
tax in accordance with such  treaty. In both cases , these Entities shall be subject to separate ETR 
and Top- up Tax calculations and shall still be treated as Stateless Constituent Entities for GloBE 
and QDMTT purposes, regardless of whether they are subject to a QDMTT charge.  
Treatment of Flow -through UPEs  
Issue to be considered  
18. Article 10.3.2 of the GloBE Rules states that a Flow -through Entity that is the UPE of the MNE 
Group is located in the jurisdiction where it is created. The GloBE Income or Loss of that UPE is included 
in the jurisdictional calculations where it was created, except to the extent of any reduction under Article 
7.1. Therefore, the QDMTT calculations of the UPE jurisdiction also must include the GloBE Income or 
Loss and Covered Taxes of the UPE, except to the extent of any reduction under Article 7.1. Where ot her 
Constituent Entities are located in the jurisdiction, the QDMTT jurisdiction will be able to collect any Top-
up Tax that arises with respect to the Flow -through UPE by allocating it to another Constituent Entity. 
However, where the UPE is the only Cons tituent Entity located in the jurisdiction, the only way to collect 
the Top- up Tax is by imposing the QDMTT liability directly on the Flow -through UPE or a similar 
mechanism, such as requiring the owners of the Flow -through UPE to pay the QDMTT liability.    | 61 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  19. The guidance set out  below states that jurisdictions are free to determine whether to impose 
QDMTT tax charge directly on a Flow -through UPEs or to introduce a similar mechanism to ensure that 
the Top- up Tax is collected , such as requiring the owners (e.g. , partners) to pay the QDMTT tax charge. 
Jurisdictions can also decide not to impose a QDMTT tax charge directly on the Flow -through UPE  or its 
owners . However, in this last case, if the UPE ’s GloBE Income is not reduced to zero pursuant to Article 
7.1 and no other Constituent Entity is located in the jurisdiction, then a UTPR may apply with respect to 
the UPE’s GloBE Income because the tax will not be collected under a QDMTT.  
Guidance  
20. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.8.1 of the Comm entary to Article 10.1.  
118.8.2   A Flow -through Entity that is the UPE of the MNE Group is located in the 
jurisdiction where it is created in accordance with Article 10.3.2(a). Jurisdictions imposing a 
QDMTT must take into account the GloBE Income or Loss and Covered Taxes of these Entities in 
the jurisdictional computations to the extent that they are not reduced in accordance with Article 
7.1. QDMTT jurisdictions do not need to impose a QDMTT charge on these Entities to be functionally equivalent to the GloBE Rules if these Entities are not tax residents in that jurisdiction. 
The QDMTT charge can be allocated to other Constituent Entities located in the jurisdiction. 
Alternatively, a jurisdiction can decide to impose the QDMTT charge on the Flow -through UPE or 
introduce a different mechanism to ensure that the tax liability that arises with respect to the UPE 
is enforceable.  If a jurisdiction does not charge the QDMTT in cases where the Flow -through UPE 
is the only Constituent Entity located in the jurisdiction (to the extent Article 7.1 does not reduce 
its GloBE Income to zero), the Top- up Tax determined for the jurisdiction may be subject to the 
UTPR.  
Treatment of Flow -through Entities required to apply the IIR  
Issue to be considered  
21. Article 10.3.2 of the GloBE Rules states that a Flow -through Entity that is required to apply the IIR 
is located in the jurisdiction where it is created. This means that the Financial Accounting Net Income or 
Loss allocated to those Entities under Article 3.5 and Covere d Taxes allocated to such Entities in 
accordance with Chapter 4, shall be blended in the jurisdiction where they are located.  
22. In the QDMTT context, Constituent Entities required to apply a n IIR  are also considered to be 
located in the jurisdiction where t hey are created. If those Entities were created in the QDMTT jurisdiction, 
then they will be located in that jurisdiction for QDMTT purposes. This means that any amount of the 
Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss allocated to those Entities under Articl e 3.5 and Covered Taxes 
allocated to such Entities in accordance with Chapter 4, shall be blended in the QDMTT jurisdiction. 
Accordingly, a jurisdiction can decide to impose or not to impose liability for a QDMTT charge on a Flow -
through Entity where the E ntity is created in the jurisdiction.  
23. The guidance below also clarifies that a Flow -through Entity required to apply the IIR is treated as 
any other Flow -through Entity.  
Guidance  
24. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.8.3 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
118.8.3   A Flow -through Entity t hat is required to apply the IIR is located in the jurisdiction 
where it is created for purposes of applying the IIR in accordance with Article 10.3.2(a). If a 62 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  jurisdiction is imposing a liability under the IIR on these Entities (i.e., treating it as a tax payer only 
for GloBE purposes), it may do the same with respect to the QDMTT. For purposes of a QDMTT, 
Entities required to apply an IIR should also be considered to be located in the QDMTT jurisdiction 
if they are created in such jurisdiction. This means that if the Financial Accounting Net Income or 
Loss has been allocated to those Entities under Article 3.5 and Covered Taxes have been allocated 
to such Entities in accordance with Chapter 4, such income or loss, and taxes shall be blended in 
the QDMTT jur isdiction.   However, QDMTT jurisdictions do not need to impose a QDMTT charge 
on these Entities to be functionally equivalent to the GloBE Rules if these Entities are not tax 
residents in that jurisdiction. The QDMTT charge can be allocated to other Const ituent Entities 
located in the jurisdiction. Alternatively, a jurisdiction can decide to impose the QDMTT charge on 
the Flow -through Entity or introduce a different mechanism to ensure that the tax liability that arises 
with respect to the Entity is enforc eable.  
UPE that is a Flow -Through Entity and UPE subject to Deductible Dividend 
Regime  
Issue to be considered  
25. Article 7.1 generally permits a UPE that is a Flow -through Entity to reduce its GloBE Income in 
respect of each Ownership Interest held by: (i) UPE owners that meet certain criteria and are subject to 
current tax at a rate that is equal to or above the Minimum Rate; or (ii) natural persons or Excluded Entities 
that are resident in the UPE jurisdiction and hold 5% or less of the profits and assets of the UPE. Article 
7.2 provides similar rules for a UPE that is subject to a Deductible Dividend Regime.  
26. The question arises as to whether QDMTT jurisdictions shall include provisions similar to Article 
7.1 and 7.2 in their QDMTT legislation.  
Guidance  
27. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.40 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
Chapter 7. Tax Neutrality and Distribution Regimes  
UPE that is a Flow -Through Entity and UPE subject to Deductible Dividend Regime  
118.40.1  To produce outcomes that  are consistent with the GloBE Rules, a QDMTT shall 
include provisions similar to Articles 7.1 and 7.2 of the GloBE Rules. Consequently, income 
attributable to the UPE cannot be subject to a QDMTT to the extent Articles 7.1 or 7.2 applies. In 
the case of A rticle 7.1, jurisdictions with Flow -through Entities need this provision otherwise it can 
alter the GloBE calculations. Similarly, jurisdictions that do not have Flow -through Entities should 
have this provision because Article 7.1.4 applies to a Permanent Establishment that could be 
located in those jurisdictions. In the case of Article 7.2, however, if a jurisdiction does not have a Deductible Dividend Regime, it is not required to include the corresponding provision in its QDMTT.  
Eligible Distribution Tax  System  
Issue to be considered  
28. A Filing Constituent Entity may make an annual election to apply Article 7.3 to Constituent Entities 
that are subject to an Eligible Distribution Tax System. In general, Article 7.3 computes the ETR for the   | 63 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  jurisdiction each year based on deemed taxes paid and then re- computes the ETR at the end of a four -
year period based on the actual taxes paid.  
29. The question arises as to whether QDMTT jurisdictions shall include a provision that mirrors Art. 
7.3 of the GloBE Rules in their QDMTT legislation.  
Guidance  
30. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.40.1 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
Eligible Distribution Tax System  
118.40.2  A Filing Constituent Entity may make an annual election to apply Article 7.3 to 
Constituen t Entities that are subject to an Eligible Distribution Tax System. In general, Article 7.3 
computes the ETR for the jurisdiction each year based on deemed taxes paid and then re-
computes the ETR at the end of a four -year period based on the actual taxes paid. A jurisdiction 
that has an Eligible Distribution Tax System shall include a provision that mirrors Article 7.3 in its 
QDMTT legislation. A jurisdiction that does not have an Eligible Distribution Tax System (i.e., a 
distribution tax system in force on or before 1 July 2021) is not required to have Article 7.3 in its 
QDMTT legislation because it will not have any effect.  
ETR Computation for Investment Entities  
Issue to be considered  
31. The mechanism in Article 7.4.5 of the GloBE Rules is intended to preserve the tax neutrality of 
Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities by ensuring that Top- up Tax is determined based 
on Covered Taxes, including Covered Taxes allocated pursuant to Article 4.3.2, and Substance- based 
Income Exclusion (SBIE) attributable to the MNE Group’s Ownership Interest in Investment Entities or 
Insurance Investment Entities. First, the Top- up Tax Percentage for the Investment Entity or Insurance 
Investment Entity is computed based on the MNE Group’s share of the Entity’s  Income and the Covered 
Taxes attributable to that income. Then, the MNE Group’s share of the Entity’s SBIE is deducted from the 
MNE Group’s share of the Investment Entity’s or Insurance Investment Entity’s GloBE income. Lastly, the 
excess of the MNE Group’s share of the Entity’s GloBE income over its share of the SBIE is multiplied by 
the Top- up Tax Percentage to determine the Top- up Tax.  
32. In applying Article 2.2 of the GloBE Rules, Parent Entities must adjust the computation of their 
Inclusion Ratio for  the Entity to account for the fact that the Top- up Tax computed for the Entity was already 
reduced by the amount attributable to non- Group Entities (i.e., the Inclusion Ratio of the UPE is 100% even 
if some Ownership Interests in the LTCE are held by non- Group Entities).  
33. The result of these computations is that the UPE is subject to Top- up Tax on its share of the 
Investment Entity’s or Insurance Investment Entity’s low -taxed income without imposing a Top- up Tax on 
the minority investor’s share of the income. In order to preserve this same tax neutrality under a QDMTT 
for investors that are not Constituent Entities of the MNE Group, the same computations must be made for 
QDMTT purposes. While jurisdictions are free to allocate the QDMTT liability in any manner that they deem 
appropriate, to preserve the tax neutrality of Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities, the liability for the Top -up Tax under the QDMTT should generally be imposed on a Constituent Entity -owner 
of the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity  that is located in the jurisdiction rather than on the 
Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity itself .  64 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Guidance  
34. The text in bold will be added to the end of paragraph 85 of the Commentary to Article 7.4.5.  
85.  The rules of Article 7.4.5 generally follow the jurisdictional Top- up Tax 
computational rules in Article 5.2. First, the Top- up Tax Percentage for the Investment Entity or 
Insurance Investment Entity is computed by subtracting the ETR computed under Article 7. 4.2 
from the Minimum Rate. Then, the Investment Entity’s or Insurance Investment Entity’s Substance-
based Income Exclusion (computed pursuant to Article 7.4.6) is deducted from the MNE Group’s Allocable Share of the Investment Entity’s or Insurance Investm ent Entity’s GloBE income under 
Article 7.4.4. The excess of the MNE Group’s Allocable Share of the Investment Entity’s or 
Insurance Investment Entity’s GloBE income over its Substance- based Income Exclusion is then 
multiplied by the Top- up Tax Percentage to determine the Top- up Tax. If there is more than one 
Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity located in the jurisdiction, their attributes 
determined under Articles 7.4.2 to 7.4.4 are combined to determine the Top- up Tax for all such 
Entities.  The Top -up Tax of Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities located 
in a jurisdiction shall be reduced by the amount of Qualified Domestic Minimum Top -up Tax 
paid in respect of such Entities.  
35. The text in bold will be added to paragraph 118.11 of  the Commentary to Article 10.1:  
118.11   This guidance does not require the QDMTT tax liability to be allocated to or among 
Constituent Entities in any particular manner, so long as all the tax liability is allocated to one or  
more Constituent Entities that are subject to tax in the jurisdiction.  Tax arising under the QDMTT 
reduces (or eliminates) the GloBE Top- up Tax for the jurisdiction as a whole. If there is GloBE 
Top-up Tax remaining after subtracting the QDMTT, the remainder is allocated among Constituent 
Entities under the GloBE Rules, including Articles 5.2.4 and 5.2.5. Thus, it is not necessary to 
allocate both the IIR Top- up Tax and the QDMTT tax Entity -by-Entity and then subtract the QDMTT 
tax allocated to an Entity from the IIR Top- up Tax allocated to that Entity.  
36. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.40.2 of the Commentary to Article 10.1:  
ETR computation for Investment Entities  
118.40.3 Articl e 7.4 of the GloBE Rules ensures that Top- up Tax only arises with respect 
to the MNE Group’s Interest in the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity. It does so by computing the ETR and Top- up Tax of such Entities based only on income and taxes that are 
attributable to the MNE Group. As their Top- up Tax was already reduced by the amount attributable 
to non- Group Entities, a Parent Entity’s Inclusion Ratio in Investment Entities and Insurance 
Investment Entities is then deemed to be 100%, irrespecti ve of the actual interest of the Parent 
Entity in their income.  
118.40.4 Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities are often tax neutral and 
their income is subject to a single level of taxation in the hands of their shareholders. A QDMTT 
may exclude Investment Entities or Insurance Investment Entities from its scope (i.e., it could be 
limited to other Constituent Entities located in the jurisdiction).  In this case, the income of such 
Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities would r emain subject to Top- up Tax under 
the IIR or UTPR if their ETR is below the Minimum Rate.  
118.40.5 A QDMTT that applies to Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities 
must compute the ETR and Top- up Tax pursuant to Article 7.4 in the same manner as the GloBE 
rules, except taxes that would be allocated to the Entity pursuant to Article 4.3.2(c) and (d) are not 
taken into account in the ETR computation.  Liability for the QDMTT tax charge can be allocated to 
any Constituent Entity pursuant to paragraph 118.12. The liability for any QDMTT Top- up Tax 
determined under Article 7.4 should generally be allocated to another Constituent Entity (if any)    | 65 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  that is located in the jurisdiction to preserve the tax neutrality of  Investment Entities or Insura nce 
Investment Entities.  
Investment Entity Tax Transparency Election  
Issue to be considered  
37. Article 7.5 of the GloBE Rules provides a Five- Year Election to treat an Investment Entity or 
Insurance Investment Entity as a Tax Transparent Entity. The election is available to Constituent Entity -
owners that are subject to a mark -to-market or a similar tax regime on their investment in such Entities at 
a rate that equals or exceeds the Minimum Rate. It is intended to match the timing and location of the 
income under the GloBE Rules and the local rules of the jurisdiction where the Constituent Entity -owners 
are located.  
38. If a jurisdiction’s QDMTT does not treat the Investment Entities and Insurance Investment Entities 
located in the jurisdiction as Tax Transparent E ntities in cases where the Entity is subject to an election 
under Article 7.5, the Entity’s  income could be subject to Top- up Tax again in the hands of the Constituent 
Entity -owner because the QDMTT paid by the Entity is not a Covered Tax and thus would not be credited 
in the Constituent Entity -owner’s GloBE Top- up Tax computations. To reduce complexity, avoid 
coordination issues and provide outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules, the QDMTT shall 
therefore treat the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity as a Tax Transparent Entity when an 
Election under Article 7.5 was made by the MNE Group.  
Guidance  
39. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.40.5 of the Commentary to Article 10.1  
Investment Entity Tax Transparency Election  
118.40.6 Article 7.5 of the GloBE Rules provides a Five- Year Election to treat an Investment 
Entity or Insurance Inves tment Entity as a Tax Transparent Entity. The e lection is available to 
Constituent Entity -owners that are subject to a mark -to-market or a similar tax regime on their 
investment in such Entities at a rate that equal s or exceeds the Minimum Rate. It is intended to 
match the timing and location of the income under the GloBE Rules and the local rules of the 
jurisdiction wh ere the Constituent Entity -owners are located.  
118.40.7 As provided in paragraph 118.53, a QDMTT must include all elections permitted 
under the GloBE Rules and require the MNE Group to make the same elections for both QDMTT 
and GloBE purposes. To provide outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules, the QDMTT 
must treat an Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity as a Tax Transparent Entity to the 
extent that an election under Article 7.5 was made with respect to a Constituent Entity -owner’s 
Ownership Interest in the Entity . The QDMTT must treat the Constituent Entity -owner’s share of 
the inc
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: ome and taxes of any Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity that is subject to an 
election under Article 7.5 as the income and taxes of the Consti tuent Entity -owner. This means 
that if all the Ownership Interests of an Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity are subject 
to an election under Article 7.5, then all of the GloBE Income or Loss will be allocated to the Constituent Entity -owners and the Entity will not have any GloBE Income or Loss subject to the 
QDMTT. On the other hand, to the extent that none of the Ownership Interests in the Investment 
Entity or Insurance Investment Entity is subject to an election under Article 7.5, the whole  income 
of the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity is subject to Article 7.4 or, if an election 
was made, Article 7.6.  66 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Taxable Distribution Method  Election  
Issue to be considered  
40. Art. 7.6 of the GloBE Rules provides a Five- Year Election to app ly the Taxable Distribution Method. 
The election reduces the exposure to Top- up Tax to the extent that the Investment Entity makes 
distributions of its income within a four -year period that are taxable in the hands of the recipients at or 
above the Minimum  Rate. It is only available to Constituent Entity -owners that are not Investment Entities 
or Insurance Investment Entities and can reasonably expected to be subject to tax on distributions from 
the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity at a rate that equals or exceeds the Minimum Rate.  
41. To produce outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules, a QDMTT must have a provision 
similar to Article 7.6. Under this provision, the QDMTT will take into account  the distributions of the 
Investment Ent ity or Insurance Investment Entity to compute the  GloBE Income or Loss of Constituent 
Entity -owners located in the jurisdiction and impose a Top- up Tax on the Investment Entity or Insurance 
Investment Entity in respect of any Undistributed Net Income.  
Guidance  
42. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.40.7 of the Commentary to Article 10.1  
Taxable Distribution Method Election  
118.40.8 Article 7.6 of the GloBE Rules provides a Five- Year Election to apply the Taxable 
Distribution Method. The election reduces the exposure to Top- up Tax to the extent that the 
Investment Entity makes distributions of its income within a four -year period. It is only available 
where the Constituent Entity -owners are not Investment Entities or Insurance Investment Entities, 
and it is reasonably expected that such owners are subject to tax on the distributions from the 
Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity at a rate that equals or exceeds the Minimum Rate.  
118.40. 9 To produce outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules, a QDMTT shall 
include a provision similar to Article 7.6. Under this provision, the QDMTT will take into account 
the d istributions of the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity to compute the GloBE 
Income or Loss of Constituent Entity -owners located in the jurisdiction and impose a Top- up Tax 
on the Investment Entity or Insurance Investment Entity in respect of any Undistributed Net 
Income.  
Taxes allocable to Hybrid Entities or Distributing Constituent Entities  
Issue to be considered  
43. The February AG clarified that the QDMTT shall exclude taxes paid or incurred by Constituent 
Entity -owners under CFC Regimes that are allocable to Constituent Entities under Art. 4.3.2 (c) of the 
GloBE Rules, as well as taxes paid or incurred by Main Entities and allocable to Permanent Establishments 
located in the jurisdiction under Art. 4.3.2 (a). The policy rationale for the guidan ce is that a jurisdiction 
should have the first right to tax income of Entities located within its territory and therefore cannot be 
required to give credit in its QDMTT for taxes imposed on the income of such Entities by the jurisdiction of a Constituent Entity -owner. The February AG, however, did not specifically address the treatment of taxes 
paid by a Constituent Entity -owners on the income of Hybrid Entities or distributions from distributing 
Constituent Entities , which under Article 4.3.2(d) and (e) are allocated to the Hybrid Entity and distributing 
Constituent Entity. Taxes paid by a foreign Constituent Entity -owner on the income of a Hybrid Entity fall   | 67 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  squarely within the policy rationale of the February AG. Some taxes on distributions also fall within the 
policy rationale of the February AG. Specifically, taxes imposed by the jurisdiction of a foreign Constituent Entity -owner on distributions from another Constituent Entity must not be included in the ETR computation 
of the Constituent Entity under a QDMTT. However, withholding taxes imposed by the jurisdiction of the distributing Constituent Entity can be taken into account in computing the ETR under that jurisdiction's 
QDMTT.  
Guidance  
44. The text  in bold will be inserted in, and the text  in strikethrough will be removed from paragraph 
118.30 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
Cross -border taxes allocable to CFC or Permanent Establishments  
118.30   For purposes of computing the ETR, a  QDMTT shall exclude Covered Tax 
expense of : (i) a Constituen t Entity -owner under a CFC Tax Regime that is allocable to a domestic 
Constituent Entity under Article 4.3.2(c) of the GloBE Rules ; (ii) a Main Entity that is allocable 
under Article 4.3.2(a) to a Permanent Establishment located in the jurisdiction; (iii) a Constituent 
Entity -owner on income of a Hybrid Entity that is allocable to a Hybrid Entity located in the 
jurisdiction under Article 4.3.2(d); and (iv) a Constituent Entity -owner  (e.g. net basis taxes), 
other than a withholding tax imposed by the QDMTT j urisdiction,  that is allocable to a 
distributing Constituent Entity located in the jurisdiction under Article 4.3.2 (e). Withholding 
taxes that are described in Article 4.3.2(e)  imposed by  the QDMTT jurisdiction  itself  on 
distributions  from a Constituent Entity located in the QDMTT jurisdiction  are allocated to 
the distributing Constituent Entity under the QDMTT . Excluding such  CFC and PE taxes allows 
the QDMTT to operate as a simple calculation and does not require the complex calculat ions 
required in some cases to allocate CFC taxes under Article 4.3.2(c) to be reported to a jurisdiction that implements a QDMTT. Further, a specific ordering rule is aimed at attributing primary taxing 
rights to the jurisdiction applying the QDMTT in relation to its Constituent Entities. If the ordering rule were the opposite, so that the cross -border  CFC taxes  above or PE taxes  were credited 
under a QDMTT, additional computations would have been required in order to avoid the QDMTT 
resulting in taxation that is below the Minimum Rate. Specifically, if a QDMTT is creditable against 
either a CFC tax charge or a PE tax charge imposed by the parent or main entity jurisdiction,  or a 
tax charge imposed by the jurisdiction of the Hybrid Entity or the distributing Constituent 
Entity , any crediting of those taxes CFC tax or PE tax  against a QDMTT would make the 
calculation of the correct amount of QDMTT problematic, due to the interaction of the two crediting mechanisms. Excluding such  taxes credits for CFC or PE taxes  from QDMTT calculations will 
ensure that this practical problem does not arise. The Inclusive Framework will monitor the interaction between the QDMTT and CFC Tax Regimes and taxable branch regimes to ensure this interaction results in the intended outcomes under the GloBE Rules and may, in the future, 
consider solutions to address issues if they arise. 
 
Transition Years  
Issue to be considered  
45. Art. 9.1.1 of the GloBE Rules sets out the deferred tax accounting attributes of a Constituent Entity 
that may be utilized in calculating the ETR in a jurisdiction in the Transition Year and subsequent years. 
Art. 9.1.3 provides a limitation on intragroup asset transfers occurring after 30 November 2021 and before 
the commencement of a Transition Year by requiring the transferred assets to be recorded at their historic 
carrying value for GloBE purposes. To provide outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules, 68 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  paragraphs 118.48 and 118.49 of the Commentary to Article 10.1 require a QDMTT to include Artt. 9.1.1, 
9.1.2 and 9.1.3.  
46. As per the definition in Art. 10.1, a Transition Year is the first Fiscal Year that the MNE Group 
comes within the scope of the GloBE Rules in respect of that jurisdiction. This means that a Transition 
Year is the first Fiscal Year for which the MNE Group has to undertake the calculations of a jurisdiction in accordance with the GloBE Rules (i.e., the IIR or the UTPR can apply with respect to a Constituent Entity 
of the MNE Group in the jurisdiction). The Fiscal Year for which the MNE Group is first subject to the GloBE 
Rules can be different for different Constituent Entities for various reasons, including the fact that Constituent Entities located in different jurisdictions may become subject to the GloBE Rules in different 
years due to the applicability of the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour. In addition, the Fiscal Year for which 
the MNE Group is first subject to the GloBE Rules can be different from the Fiscal Year for which the MNE Group is first subject to a QDMTT and, for purposes of  Article 9.1.3, the Fiscal Year that the disposing 
Constituent Entity comes within the scope of the GloBE Rules and/or the QDMTT can also be different from the Fiscal Year that the acquiring Constituent Entity comes within the scope of the GloBE Rules and/or the QDMTT. It is necessary to ensure some co- ordination in the application of the GloBE Rules and 
the QDMTT in cases where the first Fiscal Year in which each set of rules appl ies is different.  Without such 
coordination, the tax attributes under each system will be different, which will produce different outcomes 
in many cases.  
47. Article 9.1.1 and Article 9.1.2 can be coordinated with either a first -in-time rule or a refreshing rule. 
Under a first -in-time rule, the Transition Year would be determined based on the first set of rules (GloBE 
Rules or QDMTT) that the MNE Group becomes subject to in the jurisdiction. Under a refreshing rule, on the other hand, the QDMTT could provide for a new Transition Year when the GloBE Rules come into 
effect for the jurisdiction in a subsequent year. Another approach could be to refresh the Transition Year irrespective of which set of rules comes into effect last, but refreshing the Transition Year for the application 
of the GloBE Rules when the QDMTT comes into effect would be more disruptive because the GloBE 
Rules themselves do not contemplate multiple Transition Years for the same Constituent Entities.  
48. A rule that refreshes the Transition Year for purposes of the QDMTT when the GloBE Rules come 
into effect after the QDMTT  is the better approach for Articles 9.1.1 and 9.1.2 for several reasons. First, 
there is more flexibility under a QDMTT to coordinate the transition rules when the GloBE Rules come into 
effect before or after the QDMTT. Second, the QDMTT is meant to apply  consistently with the GloBE Rules 
such that the MNE Group is no worse off for being subject to a QDMTT. Article 9.1.1 generally allows MNE Groups to bring tax attributes into the GloBE Rules that would not be taken into account if the GloBE Rules had applied in a previous year (e.g., deferred tax assets attributable to tax credits). Any such attributes 
that arose after the QDMTT came into effect would be lost if the first -in-time rule were applied to determine 
the Transition Year. Other deferred tax attributes arising between the effective dates should largely be 
unaffected because they will have already been recast at 15% under the QDMTT, meaning that they will 
not need to be recast again under Article 9.1.1 and Article 9.1.2. Finally, there is little effect on Article 9.1.3 
because it applies to the same set of transactions prior to the effective date of the QDMTT and any transactions that fall within the scope of the Article after the effective date of the QDMTT will be accounted 
for consistent with Article 9.1.3 under the QDMTT.  
49. When a new Transition Year is required because the GloBE Rules come into effect for Constituent 
Entities in the jurisdiction, certain tax attributes that arose under the QDMTT will need to be eliminated or re-stated to ensure coordination in and after the transition year, including:  
a. DTL Recapture. The Constituent Entities will not be required to recapture any 
deferred tax liabilities that were taken into account in the ETR computations prior 
to the new Transition Year. The rules of Article 4.4.4 will apply only to deferred tax liabilities that arise after the beginning of the new Transition Year.    | 69 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  b. GloBE Loss Election. Any GloBE Loss Deferred Tax Asset that arose in a year 
preceding the Transition Year must be eliminated. The Filing Constituent Entity 
may make a new GloBE Loss election in the new Transition Year.  
c. E xcess Negative Tax Expense Carry -forward. Any Excess Negative Tax Expense 
Carry -forward amount under Article 4.1.5 or Article 5.2.1 shall be eliminated at the 
beginni ng of the new Transition Year. Article 9.1.2 shall apply to transactions 
occurring after 30 November 2021 and before the beginning of the new Transition Year.  
The Inclusive Framework will consider providing further guidance with illustrative examples to clarify the 
adjustments that are needed when there is a new Transition Year.  
50. Article 9.1.3 applies to an acquiring Constituent Entity. However, the conditions relevant to the 
application of Article 9.1.3 are generally determined by reference to the disposing Constituent Entity. The 
Commentary to Article 9.1.3 generally precludes an MNE Group from increasing the carrying value of 
assets transferred among Constituent Entities where the disposing Entity was not subject to the GloBE Rules or otherwise subject to tax at a 15% rate (at least) on the transfer. Where the disposing Constituent 
Entity was subject to the GloBE Rules or otherwise subject to tax at a 15% rate, the concern addressed by Article 9.1.3 (i.e., an increased carrying value due to an under -taxed intra-group transfer) does not arise. 
Similarly, this concern does not arise where the disposing Constituent Entity was subject to a QDMTT. 
This is true under both the GloBE Rules and a QDMTT. According ly, a QDMTT must have a provision 
similar to Article 9.1.3 that applies to the acquiring Constituent Entity where the disposing Constituent Entity was neither subject to the GloBE Rules nor a QDMTT.  
Guidance  
51. The following text will be added after paragraph 118.49 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
118.49.1 Under Article 10.1 of the GloBE Rules, a Transition Year is the first Fiscal Year 
that the MNE Group comes within the scope of the IIR and/or UTPR with respect to the jurisdiction. 
The application of the provisions in Articles 9.1.1 and 9.1.2 requires some coordination in cases 
where the first Fiscal Year that a QDMTT applies to domestic Constituent Entities located in the jurisdiction is before or after the first Fiscal Year in which the GloBE Rules apply to those 
Constituent Entities. For purposes of Article 9.1.3, coordination is also needed for cases where the Fiscal Year that the disposing Constituent Entity  comes within the scope of the GloBE Rules and/or 
the QDMTT is different from the Fiscal Year that the  acquiring Constituent Entity  comes within the 
scope of the GloBE Rules and/or the QDMTT .   
118.49.2  A QDMTT must have a transition rule similar to Articles 9.1.1 and 9.1.2 that 
applies where the QDMTT becomes applicable to Constituent Entities in the juri sdiction in a Fiscal 
Year that begins on or before the Fiscal Year that the GloBE Rules first become applicable to those Constituent Entities. In order to ensure coordinated outcomes where the GloBE Rules come into 
effect for such Constituent Entities after the QDMTT, the QDMTT also must have a supplemental 
rule that treats the Fiscal Year that the GloBE Rules come into effect for such Constituent Entities 
as a new Transition Year and re- sets the following attributes of those Constituent Entities:  
(a) Article 4.1.5 and Article 5.2.1 . Any Excess Negative Tax Expense Carry -forward under 
Article 4.1.5 or Article 5.2.1 shall be eliminated at the beginning of the new Transition Year.   
(b) A rticle 4.4.4. The DTL recapture rule in Article 4.4.4 shall not apply to any deferred tax 
liability that was taken into account in computing the ETR under the QDMTT and that was not 
recaptured prior to the new Transition Year. Article 4.4.4 shall apply to deferred tax liabilities that 
are taken into account in and after the new Transition Year.  70 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  (c) Article 4.5 . Any GloBE Loss Deferred Tax Asset that arose in a year preceding the new 
Transition Year must be eliminated. The Filing Constituent Entity may make a new GloBE Loss 
election in the new Transition Year.  
(d) A rticle 9.1.1. T he deferred tax items previously determined shall be eliminated and 
Article 9.1.1 shall be applied at the beginning of the new Transition Year.  
(e) A rticle 9.1.2. Article 9.1.2 shall apply to transactions occurring after 30 November 2021 
and before the beginning of the new Transition Year. However, if QDMTT  was payable due to the 
application of Article 4.1.5 in respect of a deferred tax asset attributable to a tax loss, such deferred 
tax asset shall not be treated as arising from items excluded from the computation of GloBE 
Income or Loss under Chapter 3.  
52. The following text will be added after paragraph 4 of the Commentary to Article 9.1.  
4.1 Coordination rules for the application of Article 9.1 of the GloBE Rules and the 
corresponding article of a Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax are set out in paragraphs 
118.49.1 and 118.49.2 of the Commentary to Article 10.1 . 
53. The  text  in bold  will be a dded to the end of paragraph 10.2 of the Commentary to Article  9.1.3  and 
paragraph 10.2.1 will be added after paragraph 10.2.  
10.2  As explained above, the policy intention of Article 9.1.3 is to disallow the normal 
accounting treatment of asset transactions after 30 November 2021 and before the 
commencement of a Transition Year (hereinafter referred to as the Pre- GloBE Period) where the 
income is taxed below the minimum rate and the corresponding deductions shield future income 
from potential Top- up Tax. Allowing the normal accounting treatment of such transactions would 
undermine the integrity of the GloBE Rules, and Article 9.1.3 addresses this integrity concern by requiring the acquiring Entity to use the disposing Entity’s carrying value at the time of the asset transfer as the asset’s carrying value or precluding the acquiring Entity from utilizing a deferred 
tax asset arising in connection with the transaction that has the same effect for GloBE purposes 
as an increased carrying value. However, the integrity concern is not present where the disposing Constituent Entity is subject to the GloBE Rules or a QDMTT in the Fiscal Year 
in which the transaction occurs.  
10.2.1  For purposes of Article 9.1.3, the relevant Transition Year is the Transition Year of t he 
disposing Constituent Entity  and the Transition Year of the disposing Constituent Entity is the first 
year in which its Low -Taxed Income becomes subject to charge under the GloBE Rules or it 
becomes subject to a Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax irrespective of when other 
Constituent Entities in the jurisdiction are subject to the GloBE Rules. The Article applies to any 
transfer of asset between Constituent Entities after 30 November 2021, including transfers after 
the acquiring Constituent Entity becomes subject to the GloBE Rules,  where the disposing 
Constituent Entity’s Low -Taxed Income was not subject to  charge under  the GloBE Rules or a 
Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax either because it was not within the scope of the GloBE 
Rules or because it applied a safe harbour.  
54. Paragraph 33.d. of the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour guidance is revised to read as follows:  
d. the Transition Year referred to in Article 9.1.3 for a disposing Constituent Entity does not 
include a Fiscal Year in which the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour  applies to the disposing 
Constituent Entity ; and    | 71 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Exclusion  from UTPR of MNE Groups in the initial phase of their international 
activity  
Issue to be considered  
55. Article 9.3 of the GloBE Rules provides a transitional exclusion under the UTPR by reducing the 
Total UTPR Top- up Tax Amount to zero for MNE Groups that are in the initial phase of their international 
activity. The exclusion only applies for a period of five years after the MNE Group has come wi thin the 
scope of the GloBE Rules and covers MNE Groups that: (i) have Constituent Entities located in no more 
than six jurisdictions for a Fiscal Year; and (ii) only have a limited amount of tangible assets outside the 
Reference Jurisdiction.  
56. Article 9.3  is a charging provision of the UTPR that does not impact the application of the IIR. This 
means that MNE Groups  in the initial phase of their international activity will still be subject to the GloBE 
Rules if there is an IIR applicable in a parent jurisdi ction.  
57. Paragraph 118.51 of the Administrative Guidance states that a jurisdiction is not required to adopt 
Article 9.3 under its QDMTT because it solely applies with respect to the UTPR . This leaves the option to 
the QDMTT jurisdiction to decide on whether it wants to adopt Article 9.3. However, if a jurisdiction decides to adopt Article 9.3 under its QDMTT, the provision shall be carefully designed to produce outcomes that 
are consistent with the GloBE Rules.  
58. Further guidance is therefore needed to clarif y how Article 9.3 applies in the context of a QDMTT, 
considering that the IIR could apply irrespective of the application of this provision.  
59. The guidance provides jurisdictions with three options regarding Article 9.3 in relation to their 
QDMTT  legislation. Option one allows the jurisdiction not to adopt Article 9.3. Option two allows the 
jurisdiction to adopt Article 9.3 but limited to cases where no P arent Entity is required to apply a  Qualified 
Income Inclusion Rule  with respect to Constituent Entities of an MNE Group located in  the QDMTT 
jurisdiction. Option three allows the jurisdiction to adopt Article 9.3 without the limitations in option two.  
Guidance  
60. The following text will replace paragraph 118.51 of the Commentary to Article 10.1 
118.51   Article 9.3 reduces the UTPR Top- up Tax Amount to zero where an MNE Group 
is in its initial phase of international activity. While this provision effectively turns off the UTPR, the 
IIR can still apply to MNE Groups in the initial phase of their international activity if a Parent Entity 
is located in a jurisdiction that introduced the IIR. Jurisdictions have three options with respect to 
Article 9.3 in relation to their QDMTT  legislation. Option one allows the jurisdiction not to adopt 
Article 9.3 in their QDMTT legislation. Option two allows the jurisdiction to introduce Article 9.3 in 
their QDMTT legislation but limited to the cases where none of the Ownership Interests in the 
Constituent Entities located in the QDMTT jurisdiction are held by a Parent Enti ty subject to a QIIR. 
Option three allows the jurisdiction to adopt Article 9.3 in their QDMTT legislation without the 
limitations in option two. The status of the QDMTT will not be affected where the jurisdiction adopts 
any of these three options.  72 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Currenc y for QDMTT computations  
Issue to be considered  
61. In cases where the Consolidated Financial Statements of an MNE Group are prepared in a 
currency that is different from the one required by the QDMTT legislation, it would be necessary to translate 
the result s of the Consolidated Financial Statements into local currency to determine whether the MNE 
Group is subject to a QDMTT and, if so, to make the relevant QDMTT computations.  
62. MNE Groups will have a currency translation system that they use for purposes of preparing 
Consolidated Financial Statements. This system will translate the functional currencies of various 
Constituent Entities into the MNE Group’s presentation currency. Where the QDMTT leverages the 
accounting standard used to compute the FANIL under the GloBE Rules, i.e., Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3, the 
translation rules applicable under the GloBE Rules should apply for purposes of the QDMTT computations as well. That is, the QDMTT computations should be undertaken in the presentation currency of the MNE 
Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements and, if required, any resulting liability converted from that 
presentation currency to local currency under the rules of the relevant jurisdiction.  
63. In cases where the QDMTT requires a local accounting standard and all the Constituent Entities 
in the jurisdiction use the local currency as their functional currency, the QDMTT should require the relevant computations in the l ocal currency.   
64. However, in circumstances where not all Constituent Entities in the jurisdiction use the local 
currency as their functional currency, the QDMTT computations must be made in a single currency. 
Therefore, local Constituent Entities would need to apply the currency translation rules of the financial 
accounting standard used for purposes of the QDMTT computations . In such cases, the Filing Constituent 
Entity may make a Five- Year Election to undertake the QDMTT computations for all Constituent Entities 
in the jurisdiction either:  
a. in the presentation currency of the Consolidated Financial Statements ; or 
b. in the local currency.  
If the QDMTT liability is determined in the presentation currency , it can then be translated into the local 
currency for purposes of payment.  
Guidance  
65. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.53 of the Commentary to Article 10.1  
Currency  
118.54  Where the QDMTT is computed based on the financial accounting standard 
determined in accordance with Article 3.1.2 or Article 3.1.3, the QDMTT shall require Constituent Entities to make the QDMTT computations using the presentation currency of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements in accordance with the Commentary to Article 3.1.2 and 3.1.3. Where the 
QDMTT legislation requires the computations to be made using the local accounting standard and 
all Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction use the local currency as their functional currency, the 
QDMTT shall require these computations in the local currency. However, where the QDMTT 
legislation requires the computations to be made using the local accounting standard and one or more of the Constituent Entities in a jurisdiction use a currency other than the local currency as 
their functional currency, the QDMTT shall provide a Five- Year election under which the 
Constituent Entities may undertake the QDMTT computations using the presentation currency of the Consolidated Financial Statements or the local currency. The Constituent Entities that use a 
different functional currency must apply the currency translation rules under the financial   | 73 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  accounting standard used for purposes of the QDMTT computations t.  These rules  apply without 
regard to the jurisdiction’s rules for converting the QDMTT liability to local currency for purposes 
of payment.  
Multi -Parented MNE Groups  
Issue to be considered  
66. A Multi- Parented MNE Group may have Constituent Entities located in a QDMTT jur isdiction. The 
question therefore arises as to whether QDMTT jurisdictions shall include a provision similar to Article 6.5 in their QDMTT legislation.  
Guidance  
67. The text  in bold will be inserted in, and the text  in strikethrough will be removed from, paragraph 
118.40 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.   
118.40   Chapter 6 provides rules related to corporate reorganisations. These rules are 
intended to harmonize the GloBE Rules with common tax reorganisation rules. To be functionally 
equivalent, a QDMTT needs  to include rules akin to those in Chapter 6 to the extent necessary to 
conform to the tax reorganization rules in the jurisdiction. For example, if the jurisdiction does not have tax -deferred reorganization rules in its ordinary CIT, the jurisdiction does  not need the rules 
applicable to GloBE Reorganisations. Similarly, if the jurisdiction does not have a rule that would 
allow for an election under Article 6.3.4 or does not allow for multi -parented MNE Groups , the 
jurisdiction need not adopt rules that correspond to Articles 6.3.4  or 6.5. On the other hand, the 
jurisdiction will need a rule similar to Article 6.2.1 that requires GloBE income of the target be determined using historical carrying value of assets and liabilities. Further, the jurisdiction will need 
a rule similar to Article 6.3.1 that requires gain or loss to be recognized upon transfer of assets 
among Constituent Entities in the jurisdiction. Finally, the jurisdiction will need a rule similar to 
Articles 6.5.1(a) through (d) to ensure that same ETR and Top -up Tax computational rules 
apply to Constituent Entities of Multi -Parented MNE Groups located in the jurisdiction as 
they apply under the GloBE Rules.  
Filing obligations  
Issue to be considered  
68. The GloBE Information Return (GIR) to be released does not require QDMTT jurisdictions to use 
the GIR for purposes of QDMTT information collection. The Commentary agreed in the February AG 
indicated that the Inclusive Framework would consider further guidance on the filing obligations under a 
QDMTT. The guidance set out below provides an update and clarifies the fact that QDMTT information return may follow a different format from the GloBE Information Return.  
Guidance  
69. The text in bold will be inserted in, and the text in strikethrough will be removed from, paragraph 
118.42 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.   
118.42   As previously discussed, a QDMTT must deliver outcomes similar to those 
achieved under the GloBE Rules, but it is not required to follow the GloBE Rules verbatim to 74 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  achieve this result. Nevertheless, to ensure coordination and preserve transparency, the design of 
the QDMTT needs to be functionally equivalent to the GloBE Rules such that the QDMTT computations can be made with the d
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: ata points that are required to compute the GloBE tax liability. 
Using equivalent data points for purposes of the QDMTT and the GloBE Rules will facilitate 
compliance for MNE Groups, as well as coordination and mutual trust between jurisdictions. The 
information return collected by the QDMTT jurisdiction may follow a different format from 
the GloBE Information Return. However, as the QDMTT would use equivalent datapoints to 
those provided in the GloBE Information Return, the QDMTT jurisdiction could choose to use the GIR or rely on the information included on the GIR.  The Inclusive Framework will 
consider providing further guidance on the information collection and reporting requirements under 
the QDMTT in the context of the development of  the GloBE Information Return.
 
Definitions  
Issue to be considered  
70. Chapter 10 contains the defined terms that are used in the GloBE Rules, as well as the provisions 
that shall be applied to determine the location of an Entity or a PE for GloBE purposes . Allowing QDMTT 
jurisdictions to rely on domestic rules for the definition of terms that are defined under the GloBE Rules 
and to depart from the provisions in Chapter 10 for determining the location of an Entity or a PE might give 
rise to unintended outcomes in the interaction between the QDMTT and the GloBE Rules.  
71.  To avoid coordination issues and provide outcomes that are consistent with the GloBE Rules , 
jurisdictions shall include in their QDMTT legislation all the definitions and the location rules in Chapter 10 of the GloBE Rules, except  as modified by the Commentary an d Administrative Guidance on the QDMTT.  
Guidance  
72. The following text will be included after paragraph 118.52 of the Commentary to Article 10.1.  
Chapter 10. Definitions  
118.52.1  To avoid coordination issues and provide outcomes that are consistent with the 
GloBE Rules , except as modified or provided otherwise in the Commentary to Article 10.1 on the 
definition of a QDMTT, a jurisdiction shall make sure that its QDMTT legislation inc orporates the 
outcomes provided by all the definitions and the rules determining the location of an Entity or 
Permanent Establishment in Chapter 10 of the GloBE Rules.  
QDMTT payable  
Issue to be considered  
73. There may be cases where a QDMTT jurisdiction is prevented or restricted from applying the 
QDMTT to a Constituent Entity located in the jurisdiction due to constitutional provisions or tax stabili zation 
agreements (or similar agreements between the QDMTT jurisdiction and the MNE Group). T his will 
generally mean that the Top- up Tax payable under the QDMTT will not reduce the GloBE Top- up Tax to 
zero and thus will be collected by another jurisdiction under the GloBE Rules, either the IIR or the UTPR.  
74. In cases where the jurisdiction disputes an MNE Group’s claim to a constitutional or other limitation 
on the application of its QDMTT, the MNE Group’s financial accounts may include an expense for the 
QDMTT, notwithstanding that the MNE Group is challenging the applicability of the QDMTT. In thos e   | 75 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  cases, the MNE Group would not have any Top- up Tax under the GloBE Rules if the QDMTT is considered 
payable under Article 5.2.3. This could create an integrity risk under the GloBE Rules because the dispute 
in the QDMTT jurisdiction may not be resolved before the period of limitations runs in the relevant GloBE 
jurisdiction. If the MNE Group’s claim prevails in the QDMTT jurisdiction after the Top- up Tax is no longer 
assessable or collectible in other GloBE jurisdictions, the MNE Group will have avoided a pplication of both 
the QDMTT and the GloBE Rules.  
75. In order to mitigate this integrity risk, any amount of QDMTT that the MNE Group directly or 
indirectly challenges in a judicial or administrative proceeding shall not be treated as QDMTT payable 
under Arti cle 5.2.3 where the challenge is based on constitutional or other legal grounds or a specific 
agreement with the government of the QDMTT jurisdiction limiting its tax liability, such as a tax stabilization 
agreement, investment agreement, or similar agreement. This rule also applies where a taxpayer indirectly 
challenges its liability for the QDMTT by simply claiming that it is not liable for any tax in the jurisdiction or 
that it is entitled to compensation or reimbursement for any tax paid in the jurisdic tion.  
76. This rule applies only where the MNE Group claims that it is not liable for QDMTT  in whole or in 
part based on a legal grounds  outside the QDMTT or the GloBE Rules, such as a constitutional challenge. 
It does not apply to interpretive or factual iss ues arising under the QDMTT , such as where the MNE Group 
claims that they meet an exception to the scope of the QDMTT, a particular provision of the QDMTT does 
not apply based on their facts, or a rule should be interpreted in its favour. For example, this  rule does not 
apply where an Entity claims that it meets the definition of an Excluded Entity under the GloBE Rules or 
that certain shareholdings are not Portfolio Shareholdings.  
77. If the MNE Group challenges the QDMTT before filing its GloBE Information Return (GIR), it should 
apply the credit mechanism in Article 5.2.3 on its original GIR. The QDMTT payable should not exceed the 
amount, if any, of the QDMTT that is not subject to the challenge. For example, if the MNE Group computes 
a QDMTT top- up tax of E UR 120x for the jurisdiction, but claims that under its stabilization agreement its 
Top-up tax liability cannot exceed EUR 100x and therefore it is not liable for EUR 20x of Top- up Tax under 
the QDMTT. The 20x is not considered QDMTT payable under Article 5.2.3.  
78. As explained in the  QDMTT Safe Harbour rules, where the QDMTT is not payable, the Safe 
Harbour will not apply. Accordingly, an MNE Group that contests the validity or applicability of a QDMTT 
based on a constitutional  grounds  or a tax stabili zation agreement will not be able to claim the QDMTT 
Safe Harbour, but instead will be subject to the credit mechanism in Article 5.2.3 and the rules in paragraph 
20.1 below will apply to that MNE Group.   
79. In some circumstances, the tax authority of the jurisdict ion may determine that it is unable to  
assess or collect QDMTT from certain taxpayers based on constitutional restrictions or tax stabilization 
agreements. In such cases, the QDMTT will not be payable under Article 5.2.3. Although this does not 
affect the ability of the jurisdiction’s QDMTT to satisfy the Consistency Standard under the QDMTT Safe 
Harbour , the jurisdiction should provide notification of these circumstances in the peer review process.  
80. There are other circumstances in which the QDMTT should not be considered payable for 
purposes of Article 5.2.3. In those cases, a mechanism that requires a re- computation of the Top- up Tax 
for the relevant Fiscal Year in accordance with Article 5.4 may be appropriate. The Inclusive Framework 
will consider further Administrative Guidance to address other cases where the QDMTT is not considered 
payable under the GloBE Rules and a mechanism of recomputing top- up tax with the purpose of avoiding 
double taxation and double non- taxation under the GloBE Rules.  Article 1 1, paragraph 3 of the European 
Council Directive on Ensuring a Global Minimum Level of Taxation for Multinational Enterprise Groups and Large- scale Domestic Groups provides:  
“Where the amount of qualified domestic top- up tax for a fiscal year has not been  paid within the 
four fiscal years following the fiscal year in which it was due, the amount of qualified domestic top-
up tax that was not paid shall be added to the jurisdictional top- up tax computed in accordance 76 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  with Article 27(3) and shall not be collected by the Member State which made the election pursuant 
to paragraph 1 of this Article.”  
The Inclusive Framework will provide further Administrative Guidance in relation to the interaction between 
this provision  and the GloBE Rules in order to provide for  consistent and coordinated outcomes.  
Guidance  
81. The following guidance will be added after paragraph 20 of the Commentary to Article 5.2.3.  
20.1 For purposes of Article 5.2.3, the amount of the “Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax 
payable” shall be equal to the amount accrued by the Constituent Entit ies in the jurisdiction in 
respect of the QDMTT for the Fiscal Year, except that such amount shall not include any amount 
of QDMTT that : 
(a) the MNE Group directly or indirectly challenges in a judicial or administrative 
proceeding ; or 
(b) the tax authorit y of the jurisdiction has determined is not assessable or collectible  
based on constitutional grounds  or other superior law  or based on a specific agreement with the 
government of the QDMTT jurisdiction limiting the MNE Group’s tax liability, such as a tax  
stabilization agreement, investment agreement, or similar agreement. Any QDMTT that was not 
included in QDMTT payable pursuant to this paragraph shall be included in QDMTT payable for 
the Fiscal Year to which it relates when  such amount is  paid and  no lon ger contested by the MNE 
Group.  
20.2 For example, if the MNE Group computes a QDMTT of EUR 120x for the jurisdiction, but 
claims that under its stabilization agreement with the government of the jurisdiction its total tax 
liability in the jurisdiction cannot exceed EUR 100x and therefore it is not liable for EUR 20x of 
Top-up Tax under the QDMTT. The 20x is not considered QDMTT payable under Article 5.2.3 
because that is the amount challenged based on the stabilization agreement. If instead, the MNE 
Group c hallenges the full EUR 120x liability based on its stabilization agreement, the amount of 
QDMTT payable is zero under Article 5.2.3.  
20.3 The Inclusive Framework will consider further Administrative Guidance to clarify the 
meaning of paid or payable in the context of this guidance and to address cases where the QDMTT 
is not paid within four Fiscal Years  or not payable under the GloBE Rules and develop a 
mechanism of re- computation with the purpose of providing guidance that minimizes the potential 
for doubl e taxation and double non- taxation under the GloBE Rules . 
 
 
   | 77 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  5.1 QDMTT Safe Harbour  
Introduction  
1. A Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax (QDMTT) is a domestic minimum tax imposed by a 
jurisdiction  on those Constituent Entities of an MNE Group that are resident, or constitute a permanent 
establishment in, that jurisdiction. The QDMTT operates as a Top- up Tax that is calculated in line with the 
jurisdictional ETR calculation under Chapter 5 of the GloBE Rules. Although some features of the QDMTT 
may vary from those provided for under the Model Rules the overall design and outcomes under the 
QDMTT must be consistent with those provided for under the GloBE rules.   
2. The possibility of variations between the QDMTT and the GloBE Rules (such as the ability to apply 
a local financial accounting standard under a QDMTT) means that there may be particular fact patt erns 
where the Top- up Tax imposed under the QDMTT is less than the amount that would have been due under 
the GloBE  Rules . This possibility of an MNE Group paying less Top- up Tax under a QDMTT than it would 
have incurred under  the GloBE  Rules , does not, how ever,  give rise to any integrity risks because the credit 
mechanism in Article 5.2 ensures that any shortfall in domestic Top- up Tax payable under the QDMTT will 
simply result in additional tax being payable under the GloBE R ules.   
3. The application of the credit mechanism does require, however, at least  two separate Top- up Tax 
calculations in respect of the same jurisdiction: the first calculation, based on the QDMTT legislation in the 
jurisdiction and further calculations based on the GloBE Rules (e.g., und er the legislation of the UPE  
Jurisdiction) . Inclusive Framework members have observed that the requirement to undertake separate 
Top-up Tax calculations in respect of the same Constituent Entities under parallel rules will result in 
increased compliance costs for MNE Groups and administrative burdens for tax authorities.  
4. The QDMTT Safe Harbour is intended to provide a practical solution to address this issue. Where 
an MNE Group qualifies for a QDMTT Safe Harbour, Article 8.2 excludes the application of the GloBE 
Rules in other jurisdictions by deeming the Top- up Tax payable under the GloBE  Rules  to be zero. A 
QDMTT Safe Harbour will therefore allow the MNE Group to undertake one computation under the QDMTT 
and then rely on Article 8.2 of the Model Rules to automatically reduc e the Top-up Tax to zero in a 
jurisdiction applying the GloBE Rules, thereby avoiding  the need to undertake a further calculation under 
those rules. However, the fact that an MNE Group is not required to make the second calculation under 
the safe harbour may give rise to integrity risks because any potential shortfall in the domestic Top- up Tax 
payable under the QDMTT will not result in additional tax being payable under  the GloBE  Rules .  
5. To address this risk, a QDMTT must meet an additional set of standards to qualify for the safe 
harbour. In particular, and given the ability of a QDMTT to depart from the design of the GloBE  Rules , a 
QDMTT that qualifies for a safe harbour must meet following three standards:  
a. the QDMTT Ac counting Standard  which requires a QDMTT to be computed 
based on the UPE’s Financial Accounting Standard or a Local Financial Accounting Standard subject to certain conditions;   5 Safe Harbours  78 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  b. the Consistency Standard  which requires the QDMTT computations to be the 
same as the computations required under the GloBE Rules except where the 
Commentary to the QDMTT definition in Article 10.1 as modified by the 
Administrative Guidance (hereafter the QDMTT Commentary) explici tly requires a 
QDMTT to depart from the GloBE Rules or where the Inclusive Framework 
decides that an optional variation that departs from the GloBE Rules still meets 
the standard; and  
c. the Administration Standard  which requires the QDMTT jurisdiction to meet the 
requirements of an on- going monitoring process similar to the one applicable to 
jurisdictions implementing the GloBE Rules.  
6. The Inclusive Framework will rely on the peer review process to determine whether a QDMTT 
meets these additional standards and thereby qualifies for the safe harbour. Qualification for the safe 
harbour may be determined at the same time the Inclusive Framework undertakes a review of the rules’ 
“qualified” status. These standards will be tested based on the jurisdiction’s QDMTT legislation and how it 
administers the QDMTT and not based on how the QDMTT legislation may apply to particular Group. This 
ensures that the QDMTT Safe Harbour is simple to apply and maximizes  taxpayer certainty.  
7. These standards applicable to the safe har bour should not be confused with the requirements for 
qualified status for a QDMTT. The requirements for a minimum tax to be considered a QDMTT are set out 
in the QDMTT Commentary   developed by the Inclusive Framework . The standards set out in this note 
are based on the premise that the minimum tax is already considered a QDMTT. Thus, the minimum tax 
has to be considered first a QDMTT and then tested under these standards to qualify for the safe harbour. 
For example, a minimum tax that takes into account t he allocation of cross -border taxes, such that it is not 
in accordance with paragraphs 118.28 to 118.30 of the QDMTT Commentary is not considered a QDMTT, 
and therefore, cannot benefit from the QDMTT Safe Harbour. The standards set out in this note, however, 
do not prejudge whether particular elements of such standards should be required to obtain a QDMTT 
status. Where the Inclusive Framework determines that the same standard should be required for a 
minimum tax to be considered a QDMTT, then this would be reviewed as part of the first stage of the 
QDMTT peer review process that deals with the general QDMTT status rather than the second stage that determines whether such QDMTT obtains a safe harbour status.  
Operation of the QDMTT Safe Harbour  
8. Article 8.2.1 of the GloBE Rules states  that, at the election of the Filing Constituent Entity, the Top-
up Tax for a jurisdiction shall be deemed to be zero where the Constituent Entities located in this 
jurisdiction,  or otherwise subject to that jurisdict ion’s QDMTT, are eligible for a GloBE Safe Harbour.  The 
Inclusive Framework has agreed to provide for a GloBE Safe Harbour with respect to jurisdictions that 
have implemented a QDMTT that meets the standards described in paragraphs 1 to 5 in the box below.  
Whether a QDMTT meets these standards would be determined by the Inclusive Framework as part of the 
peer review process of the QDMTT.  
9. Jurisdictions implementing the GloBE Rules (i.e., GloBE jurisdictions) shall include mechanisms 
in their law that reduces another jurisdiction’s Top- up Tax to zero where the QDMTT of that jurisdiction 
(i.e., QDMTT jurisdiction) meets the standards described in the box below. The way in which the QDMTT 
Safe Harbour is legislated or introduced in the GloBE jurisdiction depends on the legal structure of the 
GloBE jurisdiction. GloBE jurisdictions must recognize the decision taken by the Inclusive Framework, as 
part of the peer review process, on whether a QDMTT meets the requirements of the QDMTT Safe 
Harbour.   
10. The QDMTT Safe Harbour operates by allowing an MNE Group to make an election to apply the 
QDMTT Safe Harbour for each subgroup or standalone Entity subject to a separate QDMTT calculation.   | 79 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  For example, three Constituent Entities of the main group, two members of the same JV Group, and one 
Investment Entity subject to Article 7.4 of the GloBE Rules are located in a jurisdiction with a QDMTT that 
meets the standards of the safe harbour. In this case, the Filing Constituent Entity would need to make a 
separate election for t he three Constituent Entities, the two members of the JV Group, and for the 
Investment Entity.  
11. A Filing Constituent Entity can only elect to apply the QDMTT Safe Harbour where the Top- up Tax 
computed under the QDMTT would be treated as “Qualified Domestic Minimum Top -up Tax payable” under 
Article 5.2.3 if the safe harbour did not apply. Therefore, an MNE Group cannot elect to apply the safe 
harbour if its liability under a QDMTT is subject to a challenge or deemed not assessable as described in 
paragraph 20 .1 of the Commentary to Article 5.2.3. Such an MNE Group cannot elect to apply the QDMTT 
Safe Harbour for that jurisdiction irrespective of whether such QDMTT meets the standards set out below.  
12. Paragraph 20.1 of the Commentary to Article 5.2.3 provides guidance on the meaning of the term 
“Qualified Domestic Minimum Top- up Tax payable” and identifies cases in which an amount of the QDMTT 
is not payable. If an amount of QDMTT is not payable because it is subject to a challenge or deemed not 
assessable in acc ordance with paragraph 20.1, then the MNE Group cannot apply the QDMTT Safe 
Harbour for that jurisdiction. For instance, a QDMTT jurisdiction may be prevented or restricted from 
imposing some or all of the Top- up Tax computed under the QDMTT in the circums tances described in 
paragraph 20.1 Although this does not affect the ability of the jurisdiction’s QDMTT to satisfy the 
Consistency Standard, in these cases, the QDMTT Safe Harbour election that relates to such Entities is 
not available for the MNE Group b ecause the QDMTT is not a “Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-up Tax 
payable” with respect to such Entities.  
13. In some cases, the QDMTT of a jurisdiction will meet the standards set out below but the MNE 
Group will not be able to apply the safe harbour with respect to the QDMTT of that jurisdiction because such QDMTT might be subject to the Switch- off Rule. The section of this document on Consistency 
Standards explains in detail the operation of the Switch -off Rule . 80 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Standards for a QDMTT Safe Harbour  
Standards for a QDMTT Safe Harbour  
1. A QDMTT complies with the requirements of the QDMTT Safe Harbour  if it meets the QDMTT  
Accounting Standard , the Consistency  Standard , and the Administration Standard .   
2. A QDMTT meets the QDMTT Accounting Standard if the QDMTT legislation adopts one of the 
following:  
(a) provisions that are equivalent to Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of the GloBE Model Rules; or  
(b) the Local Financial  Accounting Standard Rule .  
3. Under the Local Financial Accounting Standard Rule: 
(a) the QDMTT shall be computed based on the Local Financial Accounting Standard of the 
QDMTT jurisdiction where all of the Constituent Entities located in that jurisdiction have financial 
accounts based on that standard and :  
i. are required to keep or use such accounts under a domestic corporate or tax law; or  
ii. such financial accounts are subject to an external financial audit;  
(b) the Local Financial Accounting Standard  is a financial accounting standard permitted or 
required in the QDMTT jurisdiction  by the Authorised Accounting Body or  pursuant to the 
relevant domestic legislation that is an:  
i. Acceptable Financial Accounting Standard; or  
ii. Authorised Financial Accounting Standard adjusted to prevent Material Competitive 
Distortions; and 
(c) in case where not all Constituent Entities located in the jurisdiction meet the requirements of 
subparagraph (a) or the Fiscal Year of such accounts is different to the Fiscal Year of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group, the QDMTT shall be computed based 
on the provisions that are equivalent to Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1. 3 of the GloBE Model Rules.  
4. A QDMTT meets the Consistency Standard  if the computations under the QDMTT are the same as 
the computations required under the GloBE Rules, except where  t he QDMTT Commentary explicitly 
requires the QDMTT to depart from the GloBE Rules . The Consistency Standard is met notwithstanding 
that the QDMTT:  
(a) does not include or has a more limited Substance- based Income Exclusion;  
(b) does not include or has a more limited De Minimis Exclusion;  or 
(c) has a  minimum tax rate above 15%  for purposes of applying the Top- up Tax Percentage to the 
Profits or Excess Profits for the jurisdiction.   
5. A QDMTT meets the Administration Standard  if it meets the requirements provided under the 
ongoing monitoring process applicable to the GloBE Rul es.  
The QDMTT Accounting Standard  
14. The GloBE Rules generally require the MNE Group to base its GloBE calculations on the accounts 
used for preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements of the UPE for purposes of computing the GloBE   | 81 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Income or Loss of each Constituent Entity (UPE’s Financial Accounting Standard). The definition of a 
QDMT T under the Model Rules expressly permits, however, that the calculations may be based on a  Local 
Financial Accounting Standard. While recognizing that the option of using a Local Financial Accounting 
Standard is available for purposes of the QDMTT, Inclusive Framework members have noted that this 
creates an additional administrative burden for MNE Groups  if they were required to apply the QDMTT 
based on the local standard in cases in which they  do not prepare accounts based on such standards.  
15. In these cases, requiring the use  of a local accounting standard has the potential to undermine the 
main objective of the QDMTT Safe Harbour which is to reduce the administrative burden of MNE Groups. It also creates an integrity risk because if the accounts are prepared solely for purposes of computing the 
income or loss under the QDMTT, such accounts may not be consistent with the accounting standards 
applied by the MNE Group as a whole and may not be subject to an external audit.  
16. To address this concern, the QDMTT  Accounting Standard limits the application of the Local 
Financial Accounting Standard by replicating the requirement of Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of the GloBE 
Rules. This means that the QDMTT calculations would need to be based on the accounts and the fina ncial 
accounting standard used for purposes of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the UPE, except where 
it is not reasonably practicable to use such accounts.  
17. However, the QDMTT Accounting Standard allows for a variation for jurisdictions that want to 
introduce a QDMTT computed in accordance with a Local Financial Accounting Standard. In accordance 
with paragraph 2(b) of the box above, a QDMTT jurisdiction can substitute Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 for a 
special provision referred as the Local Financial  Accounting Standard Rule.  
18. The Local Financial Accounting  Standard Rule is described in paragraph 3 of the box above. This 
rule requires the QDMTT computations to be based on the Local Financial Accounting Standard of the 
QDMTT jurisdiction where  all the C onstituent Entities located in that QDMTT jurisdiction are already 
prepar ing financial accounts based on the local standard. This condition is also met by a Constituent Entity 
if that Constituent Entity’s financial accounting net income or loss is included in a consolidated financial 
statement based on the local standard and has been prepared by another entity in the MNE Group. This  
prevents a QDMTT jurisdiction from requiring the use of the Local Financial Accounting Standard where 
the MNE Group does not prepare financial accounts based on that standard. The objective of this restriction 
is to avoid increasing the compliance costs of MNE Groups by requiring them to create local accounts 
solely for purposes of the QDMTT. Therefore, the QDMTT jurisdiction must require the QDMTT to be 
computed based on the financial accounting standards required under provisions equivalent to Articles 
3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of the GloBE Rules where the Constituent Entities do not prepare financial accounts based 
on the Local Financial Accounting Standard.   
19.  The QDMTT jurisdiction’s legislation must only allow the use of the Local Financial Accounting 
Standard where all the Constituent Entities in the MNE Group located in the QDMTT Jurisdiction meet the 
requirements of p aragraph 3 (a). This requirement is applied separately for JV G roups (which includes a 
standalone Joint Venture). Accordingly, the JV Group can itself satisfy the requirements of paragraph 3(a) and therefore be subject to the Local Financial Accounting Sta ndard. For example, i f all the Constituent 
Entities of an MNE Group located in the jurisdiction meet the requirements of paragraph 3(a) but the MNE 
Group holds an interest in a JV Group in the same jurisdiction which is subject to a different  accounting 
standard, the Local Financial Accounting Standard can be used to calculate the QDMTT for the Constituent 
Entities of the MNE Group but equivalent provisions to Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 will apply to the JV Group. 
Where the conditions of paragraph 3(a) are not met with respect to all the Constituent Entities of the MNE 
Group, or the members of the JV Group, the legislation must require the QDMTT to be computed based 
on provisions equivalent to Articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3.  
20. In the case of Constituent Entities that  are Permanent Establishments, a QDMTT jurisdiction can 
apply the Local Financial Accounting Standard Rule only where the nonresident prepares separate 
financial accounts based on the local standard for a Permanent Establishment located in that jurisdiction. 82 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  This condition is still met where the nonresident produces the relevant financial accounting information 
based on the local standard for local tax purposes and not a complete set of separate financial accounting 
statements, provided that the information needed for GloBE is available. This is consistent with paragraphs 
186 and 189 of the Commentary to Article 3.4 that states that the starting point to compute the Financial 
Accounting Net Income or Loss of a Permanent Establishment is its financial account s (if they exist) 
prepared for tax or management purposes. As part of the future work on the allocation of Financial 
Accounting Net Income or Loss between Main Entities and Permanent Establishments, the Inclusive 
Framework will consider the case where the source jurisdiction has a QDMTT that applies the Local 
Financial Accounting Standard Rule in order to determine whether a special allocation rule is needed.  
21.  In some cases, the Fiscal Year of the local accounts can be different to the one of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements which could create a mismatch between the QDMTT computations and the 
computations that would have been required under GloBE. In these situations, the QDMTT jurisdiction 
must require the use of the UPE’s Financial Accounting Standar d to ensure consistency between the 
GloBE Rules and the QDMTT.  
22. Where a QDMTT jurisdiction adopts the Local Financial Accounting Standard Rule, it shall require 
the MNE to apply the standard consistently which means that it must require the use of the Local  Financial 
Accounting Standard where the conditions are met. The QDMTT legislation must not give the option to 
MNE Groups to choose which standard to use. This addresses the risk of tax planning where an MNE 
Group can choose which Financial Accounting Stan dard provides a better outcome under the QDMTT.  
23. In order to meet the requirements of the Safe Harbour, the Local Financial Accounting Standard 
must be either an Acceptable Financial Accounting Standard or an Authorised Financial Accounting 
Standard as def ined by the GloBE Rules. In the case of local accounts based on an Authorised Financial 
Accounting Standard, these must be adjusted to prevent Material Competitive Distortions  in accordance 
with Agreed Administrative Guidance to be developed by the Inclusi ve Framework.  
24. The definition of Local Financial Accounting Standard of paragraph 3 (b) above includes any 
financial accounting standard that meets the terms of that paragraph. Therefore a QDMTT jurisdiction can 
have more than one Local Financial Accounting Standard where it is permitted or required in the QDMTT 
jurisdiction by the Authorised Accounting Body or pursuant to the relevant domestic legislation. For 
example, the domestic law of a QDMTT jurisdiction may require Entities to prepare separate financ ial 
statements based on local GAAP and have accounts used in the preparation of Consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with IFRS for Entities of large MNE Groups or MNE Groups whose ownership 
interests are trad
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: ed in a stock exchange. In this situation, in addition to local GAAP, IFRS is considered as 
a Local Financial Accounting Standard in accordance with paragraph 3 (b) of the box above.  Where an 
Entity is required to keep or use such accounts under a domestic corporate or tax law but has the cho ice 
between multiple Local Financial Accounting Standards paragraph 3 (a) (i) will be satisfied.  
25. Where the Constituent Entities located in the jurisdiction prepare financial accounts using more 
than one financial accounting standard, the QDMTT jurisdiction should determine in its QDMTT legislation 
which accounts and financial accounting standard should be used for purposes of the QDMTT computations without giving the optionality to the MNE Group (that is, the QDMTT jurisdiction must provide 
a tie-breaker rule to determine which financial accounting standard must be used for the purposes of 
applying the QDMTT).  
26. While this guidance does not include any adjustments for differences between the Constituent 
Entities’ Financial Accounting Net Income or Loss as determined under the Local Financial Accounting 
Standard and as calculated  under the UPE’s Financial Accounting Standard,  the Inclusive Framework will 
consider providing further guidance on asymmetrical treatment of items of income, expense or transactions between different accounting standards and tax rules  including those used with respect to the transitional 
and permanent GloBE Safe Harbours.     | 83 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  Consistency Standard   
27. In accordance with the QDMTT Commentary a domestic minimum top- up tax is consider ed as a 
QDMTT when it is computed in accordance with the Model Rules and Commentary and produces the same 
outcomes as those under the GloBE Rules. However, the Commentary goes on to allow or require some 
degree of customization to the QDMTT provided that a ny variation between QDMTT and the GloBE  Rules  
produces equivalent or greater tax liabilities, or does not produce lower tax liabilities on a systematic basis. 
This ability of a jurisdiction to customize a QDMTT means that a QDMTT might not be fully aligned with 
the GloBE Rules.  
28. The objective of the Consistency Standard is to  ensure QDMTTs are only eligible for the safe 
harbour when they are aligned with the GloBE Rules, except  as explicitly allowed under the safe harbour.  
This ensures that the QDMTT Safe Harbour does not undermine the objective of the GloBE Rules to 
require a minimum level of taxation in each jurisdiction by reference to a common measure.  
29. As a general principle,  in order for a QDMTT  to be eligible for the safe harbour, it must first meet 
the conditions to be a QDMTT  and must comply with the elements of the QDMTT Comment ary which 
require the QDMTT to adhere to the Model Rules and Commentary for the IIR and UTPR.6 The fact that a 
QDMTT is subject to a challenge or deemed not assessable as described in paragraph 20.1 of the 
Commentary to Article 5.2.3 does not affect the Consistency Standard. However, in some cases, the 
QDMTT Commentary either  requires or  allows for certain variations from the GloBE Rules. As described 
in the following paragraphs, these variations can be classified into Mandatory variations and Optional  
variations , and their treatment under the Consistency Standard depends on the type of variation.    
Mandatory variat ions 
30. In some cases, the QDMTT Commentary explicitly requires the QDMTT to depart from the GloBE 
Rules and requires a different  rule (e.g., different  computations) . These variations need to be included in 
the design of the domestic minimum top- up tax to be  considered a QDMTT  in the general peer review 
process.  
31. The QDMTT Commentary currently identifies two mandatory variations . The first variation is 
included in paragraphs 118.28 to 118.30  of the QDMTT Commentary and requires the QDMTT not to take 
into account the allocation of cross- border taxes , such as CFC taxes incurred by a Parent Entity or taxes 
incurred by the Main Entity with respect to profits attributable to a PE. The second variation is included in paragraph 118.54 of the QDMTT Commentary  and requires the QDMTT to be computed using local 
currency where the QDMTT is based on financial statements prepared in accordance with the Local 
Financial Accounting Standard and the local financial statements of all Co nstituent Entities in that 
jurisdiction are using the local currency.   
32. Given that these variations are a pre- requisite for a domestic minimum top- up tax to be considered 
a QDMTT, the Consistency Standard equally requires such variations as part of the general design of the 
QDMTT. A domestic minimum top- up tax without these variations would not be considered a QDMTT and 
thus, would not meet the minimum requirements of the QDMTT Safe Harbour.  
 
6 The a pplication of the QDMTT Safe Harbour to a QDMTT that uses  a Financial Accounting Standard  other than the 
one required under the Model Rules and Commentary for the IIR and UTPR is addressed in the QDMTT Accounting 
Standard and not the Consistency Standard.  
 84 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  Optional variations  
33. The QDMTT Commentary allows a QDMTT to depart  from the GloBE Rules where the variation 
produces  functionally equivalent or greater tax liabilit ies, or does not produce lower tax liabilit ies on a 
systematic basis. These variations have to be analysed on a case -by-case basis, however the QDMTT 
Commentary also identifies a number of specific cases where the QDMTT jurisdiction has the option to 
depart from the GloBE Rules.  
34. In the case of optional variations, the general principle is that the Consistency Standard will only 
be met where the QDMTT jurisdict ion chooses the option that aligns with the outcomes provided for under 
the Model Rules and Commentary for the IIR and UTPR. If the QDMTT jurisdiction chooses an option that 
departs from the Model Rules and Commentary for the IIR and UTPR, the QDMTT will not meet the Consistency Standard, unless the Inclusive Framework has agreed that this variation is acceptable and 
that the variation will not prevent the QDMTT from qualifying for the safe harbour.  
35. The Inclusive Framework has agreed that the following lis t of optional variations that depart from 
the GloBE Rules are acceptable because they will always produce equivalent or greater outcomes:  
a. no, or a more limited, Substance- based Income Exclusion;  
b. no, or a more limited, De Minimis Exclusion; and  
c. a minimum ta x rate above 15% for purposes of computing the Top- up Tax 
Percentage for the jurisdiction.   
36. The Inclusive Framework will monitor whether other variations that depart from the GloBE Rules 
can be included in the future on the list above as part of the Consistency Standard. A variation will only be 
considered where it will produce equivalent or greater liabilities in all circumstances, or where an omitted 
rule is not relevant in the jurisdiction implementing the QDMTT and therefore cannot alter the outcomes. 
For example, if the implementing  jurisdiction  designs a QDMTT that computes  its ETR and Top- up Tax on 
an Entity -by-Entity basis and it can demonstrate that  this design  ensures that such a QDMTT will  always 
produce equivalent  or greater tax outcomes on a jurisdictional basis then the Inclusive Framework could 
agree to include the design of the QDMT T in the list above.  A QDMTT that met these design requirements 
would qualify for the safe harbour provided it met the other requirements set out in this guidance.  
Switch -off Rule  
37. The QDMTT legislation and administrative practice of the QDMTT jurisdiction will be evaluated in 
the peer review process based on the three standards set out in this document. Thus, whether a QDMTT 
meets the requirements of the safe harbour is a jurisdictional evaluation that takes place in the peer review 
process and is not speci fic to any  MNE Group. However, it is recognized that , in some cases , a QDMTT 
jurisdiction could be subject to certain restrictions  on impos ing the QDMTT with respect to a particular  
Constituent Entity or corporate structure.  These limitations could affect the QDMTT  jurisdiction’s ability  to 
satisfy  the Consistency Standard which seems  disproportionate because they impact on a small number 
of Entities or particular corporate structures .  
38. To strike the right balance between having a QDMTT Safe Harbour that applies on a jurisdictional 
basis and avoiding that particular restrictions affect the ability of a  QDMTT to meet the Consistency 
Standard, the Inclusive Framework agreed that the fol lowing cases should not affect a QDMTT from 
meeting the Consistency Standard:  
a. A QDMTT jurisdiction decides not to impose a QDMTT on Flow -through Entities 
created in its jurisdiction.  
b. A QDMTT jurisdiction decides not to impose a QDMTT on Investment Entities 
subject to Articles 7.4, 7.5, and 7.6 of the GloBE Rules.    | 85 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  c. A QDMTT jurisdiction decides to adopt Article 9.3 in a QDMTT legislation with no 
limitation (i.e., option three of paragraph 118.51 of the QDMTT Commentary).  
d. A QDMTT jurisdiction includes members of a JV Group (which includes Joint 
Ventures) within the scope of the QDMTT but imposes the liability on Constituent 
Entities of the main group instead of directly on the members of the JV Group as 
permitted under paragraph 118.11 of the QDMTT Commentary.  
39.  Where a QDMTT jurisdiction adopts one of the approaches above, it will need to notify the 
Inclusive Framework of the restriction during the peer review process and any such  restrictions would be 
determined as part of the agreement that a QDMTT meets the s tandards of the safe harbour.    
40. In these specific scenarios, the MNE Group will  be subject to a Switch -off Rule which prevent s the 
MNE Group from applying the safe harbour in relation to either all or, as in examples 5 and 7, a subset of 
Constituent Entiti es  located or created in the QDMTT jurisdiction and requires  the MNE Group to switch 
to the credit method for QDMTT provided under Article 5.2.3 of the GloB E Rules. The following examples 
provide further guidance on the application of the Consistency Standard and the Switch- off Rule.  
Example 1 – Stateless Flow -through Entities  
41. Certain QDMTT jurisdictions may not bring Flow -through Entities within the scope of a QDMTT 
because they are not tax residents in accordance with their Corporate Income Tax Law . Such  Entities are 
Stateless Entities under the GloBE Rules unless they are  the UPE of the MNE Group or requir ed to apply 
an IIR in accordance with Article 2.1. However, paragraph 118.8.1 of the QDMTT Commentary provides QDMTT jurisdictions with the option of imposing a QDMTT, computed on a standalone basis, on these  
Stateless  Entities provided that they are creat ed in the QDMTT jurisdiction. Thus, while the general rule is 
that QDMTT jurisdictions are not required to impose a QDMTT on Flow -through Entities  that are Stateless 
Entities , the Consistency Standard will remain unaffected regardless of whether a QDMTT jurisdiction 
imposes a QDMTT on  such Flow -through Entities. Where the QDMTT does not apply to  such  Stateless  
Flow -through Entities , the MNE Group will apply the GloBE Rules  with respect to all of those Flow -through 
Entities created in a QDMTT jurisdiction.  
Example 2 – Flow through UPEs  
42. As discussed in Example 1, many QDMTT jurisdictions might not impose a QDMTT on Flow -
through Entities because they are not tax residents in accordance with their Corporate Income Tax Law . 
However, in the case of the GloBE Rules, a Flow -through UPE is considered to be located in the jurisdiction 
where it is created and paragraph 118.8.2 of the QDMTT Commentary states that the QDMTT must take into account these Entities in the jurisdictional computations even if the QDMTT jurisdi ction decides not to 
impose a QDMTT charge directly on these Entities. A QDMTT will meet the Consistency Standard 
irrespective of whether the QDMTT jurisdiction decides to impose the QDMTT charge on these Entities as 
long as these Entities are included in the jurisdictional computations of the QDMTT. In this case, the MNE Group will apply the Switch- off Rule with respect to a QDMTT jurisdiction where the UPE Flow -through 
Entity is located if such jurisdiction does not impose a QDMTT charge on these Flow -through Entities. 
Where the QDMTT jurisdiction does not impose a QDMTT charge on Flow -through UPEs, the Switch- off 
Rule must be applied with respect to the jurisdiction where the UPE is located notwithstanding that the 
QDMTT jurisdiction reallocates the Top- up Tax attributable to the Flow -through UPE to other Constituent 
Entities located in the jurisdiction.   
Example 3 – Flow Through Entities that apply the IIR  
43. A Flow -through Entity that is required to apply the IIR is located in the jurisdiction where it is c reated 
for purposes of Articles 2.1 to 2.3 and related provisions. Following the same rationale as in Example 2, 
paragraph 118.8.3 of the QDMTT Commentary allows a QDMTT jurisdiction to elect whether to impose a 
QDMTT charge on such Entities. The Consistency Standard will remain unaffected irrespective of whether 86 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  a QDMTT jurisdiction decides to impose a QDMTT charge on these Entities as long as these Entities are 
included in the jurisdictional computations of the QDMTT, in the jurisdiction where they are cr eated.  In this 
case, the MNE Group will apply the Switch- off Rule with respect to the QDMTT jurisdiction where the Flow -
through Entity is located if that jurisdiction does not impose a QDMTT charge on these Flow -through 
Entities. Where the QDMTT jurisdicti on does not impose a QDMTT charge on Flow -through Entities 
required to apply the IIR, the Switch- off Rule must be applied with respect to the jurisdiction where such 
Flow -through Entity is located notwithstanding that the QDMTT jurisdiction allocates the T op-up Tax 
attributable to these Flow -through Entities to other Constituent Entities located in the jurisdiction.  
Example 4 – MNE Groups in the initial phase of their international activity  
44. Article 9.3 provides a transitional exclusion under the UTPR where  MNE Groups are in their initial 
phase of their international activity. This provision is part of the UTPR and does not affect the operation of 
the IIR. Paragraph 118.51 of the QDMTT Commentary provides three options to jurisdictions in relation to 
the adoption of Article 9.3 in their QDMTT legislation. Option one allows the jurisdiction not to adopt Article 
9.3 in their QDMTT legislation. Option two allows the jurisdiction to adopt Article 9.3 limited to cases where a Qualified IIR does not apply. Option t hree allows the jurisdiction to adopt Article 9.3 without the limitations 
in Option two. The Consistency Standard will be met regardless of which of these three options the QDMTT 
jurisdiction chooses. In this case, the MNE Group that applies Article 9.3 to a QDMTT will apply the Switch-
off Rule with respect to all of its Constituent Entities located in a QDMTT jurisdiction where that jurisdiction 
has adopted option three. However, the Switch- off Rule will not apply if the QDMTT jurisdiction has adopted 
options one or two.    
Example 5 – Investment Entities  
45. A QDMTT jurisdiction may decide not to impose a QDMTT on Investment Entities subject to Article 
7.4, 7.5 or 7.6 located in their jurisdiction because its tax system is designed to preserve the tax neutrality 
of these Entities. In these cases, the QDMTT wil l still meet the Consistency Standard notwithstanding it is 
not imposed on these Investment Entities. The MNE Group will apply the Switch -off Rule with respect to 
these Investment Entities because the QDMTT does not apply to these Investment Entities.  
Example 6 – Constituent Entities that are not wholly owned  
46. Paragraph 118.10 of the QDMTT Commentary states that a QDMTT should be imposed on 100% 
of the Jurisdictional Top- up, Tax which will allow that jurisdiction’s Top- up Tax to be reduced to zero under 
the GloBE Rules. Alternatively, paragraph 118.10 gives the option to QDMTT jurisdictions to turn off their 
QDMTT where not all the Constituent Entities of the jurisdiction are 100% owned by the UPE or a POPE for the entire Fiscal Year. In this case, a QDMTT w ill meet the Consistency Standard only where the 
QDMTT is imposed on 100% of the Jurisdictional Top- up Tax notwithstanding the UPE or POPE’s 
ownership interests in the Constituent Entities. In other words, jurisdictions that take advantage of the option to exclude partially -owned Entities from their QDMTT will not meet the Consistency Standard and 
will therefore not qualify for the Safe Harbour. In this last case, the Switch- off Rule is not relevant because 
the QDMTT did not qualify for the Safe Harbour.  
Example 7 – Joint Ventures  
47. Paragraphs 118.8 and 118.10 of the QDMTT Commentary state that a QDMTT jurisdiction has the 
option not to apply the QDMTT to MNE Groups that have a member of a JV Group (which includes a Joint 
Venture) located in the jurisdiction.  The Consistency Standard will only be met in cases where the QDMTT 
jurisdiction decides to apply the QDMTT to MNE Groups that have a member of a JV Group located in 
such jurisdiction. The Consistency Standard will remain unaffected regardless of whether t he liability for 
the QDMTT charge is imposed on the members of a JV Group or a Constituent Entity of the main group 
located in the same jurisdiction as permitted by paragraph 118.11 of the QDMTT Commentary. However, 
the MNE Group is subject to the Switch- off Rule with respect to the members of the JV Group where a 
QDMTT jurisdiction includes members of a JV Group within the scope of the QDMTT but imposes the   | 87 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  liability on Constituent Entities of the main group instead of directly on the members of the JV Group. Note 
that the Switch- off Rule is not relevant where a QDMTT jurisdiction decides not to include Joint Ventures 
and JV Subsidiaries within the scope of the QDMTT because the QDMTT will not meet the Consistency 
Standard and therefore will not qualify for  the safe harbour.   
Example 8 – Adjustments to GloBE Income  
48. Paragraph 118.21 of the QDMTT Commentary states that jurisdictions have the option not to 
include all the adjustments in Chapter 3 where those adjustments are not relevant for their domestic tax 
system. As an example, this paragraph says that a QDMTT jurisdiction that follows the accounting 
treatment of stock -based compensation has the option not to include in its QDMTT the adjustment required 
by Article 3.2.2 of the Model Rules. A QDMTT will not meet the Consistency Standard where the QDMTT 
legislation does not include all the adjustments required in Chapter 3. However, many of these adjustments 
could be included in the list in paragraph 35 above in the future if the Inclusive Framework determines  that 
they produce equivalent or greater outcomes. In the case where the Consistency Standard is not met and 
the QDMTT does not qualify for the Safe Harbour, the Switch- off Rule is not relevant.  
Example 9 - Eligible Distribution Tax Systems  
49. Eligible Distri bution Tax Systems are subject to special rules in accordance with Article 7.3 of the 
GloBE Rules. These tax systems are those that were in force on or before 1 July 2021. Paragraph 118.40.2 
of the QDMTT Commentary says that a jurisdiction with an Eligible Distribution Tax System shall include 
Article 7.3 in their QDMTT legislation. It further states that a QDMTT jurisdiction that does not have an Eligible Distribution Tax System by 1 July 2021 is not required to have this provision in their QDMTT 
legislation because it will not have any effect. In the case of a jurisdiction without an Eligible Distribution 
Tax System , the Consistency Standard will remain unaffected regardless of whether a QDMTT jurisdiction 
incorporates this provision into their QDMTT legis lation.  The Switch- off Rule is not applicable in this case 
because it is not included in the list of cases where such rule applies.  
The Administration Standard  
50. The QDMTT Safe Harbour eliminates the need to make the calculations in the GloBE jurisdiction 
and the GloBE  jurisdiction will instead rely on the calculations in the QDMTT jurisdiction to ensure that the 
MNE Group is subject to the minimum level of taxation in the QDMTT jurisdiction. In this context, the 
Administration Standard ensures that the admi nistration of the QDMTT is the same as the one that would 
have applied under qualified GloBE Rules of another jurisdiction.  
51. The Administration Standard requires a QDMTT jurisdiction that benefits from a Safe Harbour to 
be subject to the same ongoing monit oring process as the GloBE Rules. This is because all implementing 
jurisdictions will be reducing the QDMTT jurisdiction’s Top- up Tax to zero and therefore, relying on the 
effective application of the rules in the QDMTT jurisdiction. The ongoing monitoring process will include a 
review of the information collection and reporting requirements under the QDMTT to ensure that they are 
consistent with the equivalent requirements under the GloBE Rules and the approach set out in the GloBE 
Information Return. As a n exception, a jurisdiction that has introduced a QDMTT which qualifies for the 
QDMTT Safe Harbour may choose not to apply the simplified jurisdictional reporting framework  provided 
in the GloBE Information Return:  
a. when Top- up Tax arises under the QDMTT (even if that Top- up Tax does not need 
to be allocated among Constituent Entities); or  
b. where the financial information used for the purposes of the QDMTT Safe Harbour 
is alre ady reported at the CE level and the compliance rules in the jurisdiction 
require taxable entities to file information returns or tax returns for each entity for 
local tax purposes.  88 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  In this case the jurisdiction applying the QDMTT may require the MNE  Grou p to report adjustments to 
GloBE Income or Loss and Adjusted Covered Taxes for each local CE on a separate entity basis (including 
separate reporting of the additions and reductions for each adjustment) in accordance with the accounting 
standard used under  the QDMTT.  
Peer Review Process for a QDMTT Safe Harbour  
52. A Peer Review Process will determine whether a minimum tax can be considered a QDMTT. The 
Peer Review Process is still to be developed under the GloBE Implementation Framework. However, this 
Peer Review Process will also incorporate a transitional and permanent review processes to determine 
whether a QDMTT meets the standards of the QDMTT Safe Harbour.  
53. The first question to be answered by the Peer Review Process is whether a minimum tax meets 
the criteria to be considered a QDMTT. This determination would be based on the Agreed Administrative 
Guidance on the QDMTT published in February 2023 and further guidance to be developed by the Inclusive 
Framework.   
54. If the minimum tax meets the criteria of the QDMTT, then the next step in the Peer Review Process 
would be to determine whether such QDMTT meets the standards of the QDMTT Safe Harbour. This 
analysis wou ld be based on the criteria set out by this document. Thus, a QDMTT would need to meet the 
Accounting Standard, the Consistency Standard, and the Administration Standard in order to benefit from 
the safe harbour.  
55. Finally, the QDMTT  should meet the general  requirements of the QDMTT and the standards of the 
QDMTT Safe Harbour  where a  jurisdiction computes its QDMTT in accordance with the  legislation 
applicable to its  Qualified IIR or Qualified UTPR  subject to the mandatory variations  identified in paragraph 
31 above. This will reduce the complexity and length of the legislation which will also facilitate the peer 
review process. Further guidance on how this review will be undertaken would be provided by the Inclusive 
Framework as part of the work on the peer review process.     | 89 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  5.2 Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour  
Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour  
1.  The UTPR Top-up Tax Amount  calculated for the UPE Jurisdiction shall be deemed to be zero for 
each Fiscal Year during the Transition Period if the UPE Jurisdiction has a corporate income tax that 
applies at a rate of at least 20 percent.  
2.  Transition Period means the Fiscal Years which  run no longer than 12 months that begin on or 
before 31 December 2025 and end before 31 December 2026.  
1. T he UTPR is  designed to operate as a backstop to the IIR  by encouraging jurisdictions to adopt 
the GloBE rules and MNEs to structure their group holdings in a way that brings their operations within the 
charge of the IIR.  However, the operation of the rule order under GloBE rules means that the UTPR 
effectively operates as the primary mechanism for imposing top- up tax in the UPE jurisdiction where that 
jurisdiction has not introduced a Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-u p Tax (QDMTT). MNE Groups that are 
exposed to the potential application of the UTPR in the UPE jurisdiction have limited ability to change their 
ownership structure to bring the UPE’s profits within the scope of an IIR.  The UTPR can  also be expected 
to apply with more frequency in the first years of operation of the GloBE Rules as jurisdictions complete the process of introducing qualified rules, including QDMTTs.  
2. Applying the UTPR to the UPE Jurisdiction before jurisdictions have sufficient time to get t heir 
QDMTT in place is undesirable for several reasons. First, the Top- up Tax allocated to jurisdictions under 
the UTPR will often be disproportionate to the profit arising in those jurisdictions. Many MNE Groups will 
have a significant portion of their operations and profits in the UPE Jurisdiction and smaller operations in 
other jurisdictions. Second, there are more possibilities for disputes to arise under the UTPR because it  
relies on more information and a higher degree of co- ordination than the IIR. Implementation and 
coordination of the UTPR will benefit from a proven dispute prevention and resolution mechanism and 
possibly an advance certainty mechanism.  
3. An MNE Group can avoid application of the UTPR in jurisdictions other than the UPE Jurisdiction 
by transferring ownership of those  operations into a foreign holding company that is subject to a qualified 
IIR. However, as a practical matter, many MNE s will not be able to invert their holding structure to avoid 
application of the UTPR in the UPE Jurisdiction. The inability of the UPE to structure out of the UTPR 
means that low -taxed profits in the UPE Jurisdiction will be subject to the UTPR unless the U PE Jurisdiction 
makes changes to its existing corporate income tax or adopts a Domestic IIR or a QDMTT . This 
Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour therefore provides additional time for jurisdictions to assess the impact 
of the GloBE rules and reform their existing corporate income tax so that it will routinely produce GloBE 
ETRs at or above the Minimum Rate or to adopt a qualified domestic minimum tax such as a Domestic IIR 
or a QDMTT.  
4. This Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour  is designed to provide transitional relief  in the UPE 
Jurisdiction during the first two years in which the GloBE rules come into effect. Under the Transitional 
UTPR Safe Harbour, t he UTPR Top -up Tax Amount  calculated for the UPE Jurisdiction shall be deemed 
to be zero for Fiscal Years which  run no  longer than 12 months that  begin on or before 31  December 2025 
and end before 31 December 2026.  
5. The corporate income tax rate for each jurisdiction is the nominal statutory tax rate generally  
imposed on in- scope MNE Groups on a comprehensive measure of income. This rate may take into 
account sub- national taxes provided that such taxes are structured so that in the case of all sub- national 
jurisdictions, the combined rate generally applicable to in- scope MNE Groups will be equal to or greater 90 |   
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY –  AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE, JULY 2023 © OECD 2023  
  than 20%. The nominal 20 % rate test ensures that only MNE Groups whose UPEs are located in a 
jurisdiction with a corporate income tax system and sufficiently high corporate income tax rate benefit from 
this safe harbour.  Each implementing jurisdiction may take into ac count the OECD’s Statutory Corporate 
Income Tax Rates  table for the relevant Fiscal Year in making its determination as to which jurisdictions 
are eligible for the Transitional UTPR Safe Harbour. The Inclusive Framework shall provide, upon request, 
further Administrative Guidance identifying whether a jurisdiction has met the 20 percent rate test for the 
relevant Fiscal Year.  
6. The short transition period is designed to ensure that the safe harbour does not serve as a 
disincentive for jurisdictions to adopt the GloBE Rules or as an incentive for MNE Groups to invert into a 
jurisdiction that has not yet adopted a QDMTT or to shift profits into UPE jurisdictions that have lower 
effective tax r ates. Accordingly, the transition period cannot be extended.  
7. An MNE Group that qualifies for more than one transitional safe harbour may choose which safe 
harbour to apply for that jurisdiction. When an MNE qualifies for both a transitional CbCR and UTPR s afe 
harbour in a jurisdiction in a Fiscal Year, the MNE may elect to apply the Transitional CbCR Safe Harbour, 
rather than the UTPR safe harbour, in order to avoid losing the benefit of the Transitional CbCR Safe 
Harbour  in a subsequent Fiscal Year under t he “once out, always out” approach.  
    | 91 
TAX CHALLENGES ARISING FROM THE DIGITALISATION OF THE ECONOMY, JULY 2023 – AGREED ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDANCE © OECD 2023  
  References  
 
OECD (2022), Tax Challenges Arising from the Digitalisation of the Economy – Commentary to 
the Global Anti -Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two), First Edition:  Inclusive Framework on 
BEPS , OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, OECD Publishing, Paris, 
https://doi.org/10.1787/1e0e9cd8- en. [2] 
OECD (2021), Tax Challenges Arising from Digitalisation of the Economy – Global Anti -Base 
Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two):  Inclusive Framework on BEPS , OECD/G20 Base Erosion 
and Profit Shifting Project, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/782bac33- en. [1] 
OECD (2017), Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital: Condensed Version 2017 , 
OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/mtc_cond- 2017- en. [4] 
UN (2021), “UN Model Double Tax Convention”,  United Nations Model Double Taxation , United 
Nations, 
https://www.un.org/development/desa/financing/sites/www.un.org.development.desa.financin
g/files/2022- 03/UN%20Model_2021.pdf.  [3
administrative-guidance-global-anti-base-erosion-rules-pillar-two-july-2023.pdf: ] 
 
 
 ] 
 
 
 
